THE following account of Croſs-fell will entertain ſuch of your readers whoſe genius inclines them to the deſcription of romantic ſcenes. A mountain that is generally ten months bury’d in ſnow, and eleven in clouds, cannot fail of exciting the attention and curioſity of a traveller. That immenſe ridge of mountains, which are reputed the British Alps, make their first appearance in Derbyſhire, and are thence continu’d in one chain of different elevations to the river Tweed. The Lancaſhire and Copland heights, with thoſe in Yorkſhire and Durham, being only detach’d parts of this great body, ſuch as are remarkably eminent have particular names aſſign’d them, whilst the general ridge bears one appellation for ſeveral miles together. Croſs-fell, tho’ diſtinguiſhed in none of our county maps, is moſt ſingularly eminent, whether you regard its height, or the immenſe baſe it ſtands on, being above 20 miles in circumference; in ſome parts the riſe is very leiſurely and gradual, in others more rugged and perpendicular, emitting conſiderable ſtreams to both ſeas. This inſenſible aſcent removes its top to a very great diſtance from the inhabited plains, and being in a manner encompaſſed with other deſolate and barren mountains, it retains the ſnow much  longer than any other we can ſee in Britain, there being ſome who affirm that it has continued ſometimes for ſeven whole years together. Aldſtone is the neareſt town where one can get a ſafe conductor to croſs theſe almoſt impervious waſtes, a country extremely ill repreſented in all our maps yet publiſhed, not to mention their exhibiting the towns on the wrong ſide of the river [Nint]. About two in the afternoon we ſet forward three in company, and two who join’d us afterwards, out of the ſame curioſity. We paſs’d the river Tine near its confluence with Blackaburn, beyond which this immenſe waſte begins, and could plainly perceive the alteration of air in riding a few miles. On the top of Roderic heights is a pretty large lake, call’d Green-caſtle-loch, which receives no viſible feeder, but emits a ſmall ſtream northward to the ſaid burn; nor is there any veſtige of a caſtle, from which it could be preſum’d to borrow the name. The Swallows, thoſe inconteſtable remains of Noah’s deluge, begin here to be very frequent. Some of theſe are 30 or 40 yards in diameter, and near as much deep, perfectly circular, but contain no water at any ſeason, the ground having gradually fallen in at the ſinking of the waters; but where they have happen’d amid rocks, the holes are left open to incredible depths. This naturally accounts for thoſe ſurprizing phænomena in the Pyrenean and Narbone mountains, and our Elden-hole in Derbyſhire, whoſe depths have never been aſcertained with the longeſt lines. On the deſcent of Roderic-fell there is plenty of herbage, but few plants, ſave the ſcorpioides arvenſsis, and tormentil. At the bottom of this height Blackaburn is divided into two branches, the eaſtermoſt tumbling over a precipice of 40 perpendicular yards, which makes a moſt wild, ſurprizing caſcade. From this rivulet we are to account the riſe of Croſs-fell. We were now ſo much environ’d with large and extended moraſſes, rocks and mountains, that they exhibited a very frightful appearance, not the veſtige of a houſe, except ſome old ſhiels, where in former ages the people had reſorted like the Aſiatic Tartars to graze their cattle in ſummer, a practice now quite diſus’d. There were a few ſheep, but no deer, that we could ſee, tho’ there are ſeveral on the heighs; and notwithſtanding the extraordinary drought, the water follow’d our horſes footſteps for miles together, except where the ground was perfectly rotten. At a place call’d Bulmans cleugh there have been formerly lead-works, now left off. We had now aſcended gradually about 3 miles, thro’ very broken moraſſy waſtes, when the mountain began to riſe in three very formidable aſcents, very ſteep, in the manner of mount Lebanon, pil’d one above another, with large and extenſive plains to each of them, and looſe ſhivery ſtones on brows, very troubleſome to the horſes which we now were obliged ſometimes to quit. This continu’d for near 2 miles more, when we got on the edge of the higheſt, which forms a capacious plain of ſeveral hundred acres, if you reckon from the Eaſt aſcent; but of ſuch a barren ſoil, that there was not ſo much as a ſingle leaf or graſs, her or plant to be found in ſo large a plain, excluſive of a few of thoſerings attributed to fairies, ſome of which are perfect circles of the Gramen glumis variis, in botany, aſcrib’d by Linnæus in his deſcription of the Baltic iſles to a particular quality of its affecting the dirtieſt ſoil, where no other graſs can thrive. This immenſe plain has no verdure, therefore, but a venerably grey aſpect from the moſs or down, and even this can hardly draw a ſubſiſtence to ſupport itſelf; ſo inconceivably barren is this diſtinguiſh’d eminence. The Weſt ſide towards the Cumberland plains is more rocky and ſteep than the way we aſcended. Great part of ſix counties were to be ſeen, and notwithſtanding our height, there ſeemed to be 4 or 5 mountains that diſputed preheminence, the reſt look’d all far below us. Theſe were Skiddow in the Weſt of Cumberland, Criffield in Scotland, Pennygent and Ingleborough in Yorkſhire, and the height Cheviot in Northumberland. I computed the diameter of our viſible horizon to exceed 120 miles, 60 each way from the center. The mountains in Cleveland by the eaſt ſea were very fair, and the Weſt ſea ſufficiently diſcoverable. As to the perpendicular height of the mountain, I could not ſo well judge, having no barometer, and the top ſuffers too much by refraction to be aſcertain’d on geometrical principles. Whether it takes its name Croſs-fell from its tranſverſe ſituation to the common run of that ridge, or from a papiſtical conjuring croſs to diſlodge the aerial dæmons, which that region has aſcribed to this deſolate mountain, I take not upon me to determine. P. S. Being the 13th of Auguſt, and a long drought, and a hot ſeaſon, we were not able to find any the leaſt relicks of ſnow, in places moſt likely for it; which is very extraordinary. 