Wednesday, 9. I rode to Downam-Green, near Wigan, a Town wicked to a Proverb. We had a Specimen of the Manners of its Inhabitants, in the Behaviour of a Man that met us, and accoßted us with ßuch Language as would have become an Inhabitant of the Bottomleßs Pit. One would have thought from their Looks, that a good Part of the Congregation was of the ßame Spirit. But in a ßhort Time the Word of GOD prevailed, and all their Fierceneßs melted away. IN the Evening I preached at Bolton, and on Friday, 11. about Nine at Lower Darwent, a ßmall Village near Blackburn. At Lancaßter we were informed, it was too late to croßs the Sands. However we reßolved to make the Trial. We paßßed the Seven-mile Sand without Difficulty, and reached Fluckborough about Sunßet. Saturday, 12. Setting out early, we came to Bottle; about Twenty-four meaßured Miles from Fluckborough, ßoon after Eight, having croßßed the Millam-Sand, without either Guide or Difficulty. Here we were informed, that we could not paßs at Ravenglaßs, before one or two o'Clock: Whereas had we gone on, (as we afterward found,) we might have paßßed immediately. About Eleven we were directed to a Ford, near Muncaßter-Hall, which they ßaid, we might croßs at Noon. When we came thither, they told us, we could not croßs. So we ßat ßtill till about One. We then found, we could have croßt at Noon. However, we reached Whitehaven before Night. But I have taken my Leave of the Sand-Road. I believe, it is ten meaßured Miles ßhorted than the other: But there are four Sands to paßs, ßo far from each other, that 'tis ßcarce poßßible to paßs them all in a Day: Eßpecially as you have all the Way to do with a Generation of Liars, who detain all Strangers as long as they can, either for their own Gain, or their Neighbours. I can adviße no Stranger to go this Way: He may go round by Kendal and Kerßwick, often in leßs Time, always with leßs Expence, and far leßs Trial of his Patience. REFLECTING to Day on the Caße of a poor Woman, who had a continual Pain in her Stomach, I could not but remark the inexcußable Negligence of moßt Phyßicians in Caßes of this Nature. They preßcribed Drug upon Drug, without knowing a Jot of the Matter, concerning the Root of the Dißorder. And without knowing this, they cannot cure, though they can murder the Patient. Whence came this Woman's Pain? (Which ßhe would never have told, had ßhe never been queßtioned about it:) From fretting for the Death of her Son. And what availed Medicines, while that fretting continued? Why then do not all Phyßicians conßider, How far Bodily Dißorders are caußed or influenced by the Mind? And in thoße Caßes, which are utterly out of their Sphere, call in the Aßßißtance of a Minißter, as Minißters when they find the Mind dißordered by the Body, call in the Aßßißtance of a Phyßician? But why are theße Caßes out of their Sphere? Because they know not GOD. It follows, no Man can be a thorough Phyßician, without being an experience Chrißtian. Tueßday, 15. I rode over to Lorton, a little Village at the Foot of a high Mountain. Many came from a conßiderable Dißtance, and I believe did not repent of their Labour. For they found GOD to be a GOD both of the Hills and Valleys, and no where more preßent than in the Mountains of Cumberland. Thurßday, 17. I enquired into a ßignal Inßtance of Providence. When a Coal-pit runs far under the Ground, it is cußtomary here to build a Partition Wall, from the Bottom to the Top of it, nearly from the Shaft to within three or four Yards of the End, in order to make the Air circulate, which then moves one Side of the Wall, turns at the End, and moves brißkly up on the other Side. In a Pit two Miles from the Town, which ran full four Hundred Yards under the Ground, and had been long neglected, ßeveral Parts of this Wall were fallen down. Four Men were ßent down to repair it. They were about three Hundred Yards from the Shaft, when the foul Air took Fire. In a Moment it tore down the Wall from End to End, and burning on till it came to the Shaft, it then burßt and went off like a large Cannon. The Men inßtantly fell on their Faces, or they would have been burnt to Death in a few Moments. One of them who once knew the Love of GOD, (Andrew Englißh,) began crying aloud for Mercy. But in a very ßhort Time his Breath was ßtopped. The other three crept on their Hands and Knees, till two got to the Shaft and were drawn up; but one of them died in a few Minutes. John M'Combe was drawn up next, burnt from Head to Foot, but rejoicing and praißing GOD. They then went down for Andrew, whom they found ßenßeleßs, the very Circumßtance which ßaved his Life. For loßing his Senßes, he lay flat on the Ground, and the greateßt Part of the Fire went over him: Whereas had he gone forward on his Hands and Knees, he would undoubtedly have been burnt to Death. But Life or Death was welcome. For GOD had reßtored the Light of his Countenance. Saturday, 19. One was ßhewing us the Improvements, begun by Sir William Lowther. He had marked out Places for new Walks, and for Tufts of Trees, laid out a new Plan for his Gardens, begun to alter the Houße, and was preparing to make a little Paradiße round about it. But Death came between. And how little Loßs was this, if it removed him to the Paradiße of GOD? Sunday, 20. I preached at Eight in an open Place at The Gins, a Village on one Side of the Town. Many were there, who never did, and never would, come to the Room. O what a Victory would Satan gain, if he could put an End to Field-preaching! But that, I trußt, he never will: At leaßt not till my Head is laid. AFTER preaching again at two, I took my Leave of Whitehaven, and rode to Cockermouth. At Six I reached at the End of the Market houße. High and  Low, Rich and Poor, attended. And by far the greater Part of the Audience ßeemed to be conßcious, That GOD was there. Monday,21. I preached at Ten in the Market-place at Wigton, and came to Solway Frith, just as the Water was fordable. At ßome Times it is ßo, Three Hours in Twelve; at other Times, barely One. AFTER making a ßhort Bait at Rothwell, we came to Dumfries before ßix o'Clock. Having Time to ßpare, we took a Walk in the Church-Yard, one of the pleaßanteßt Places I ever ßaw. A ßingle Tomb I obßerved there, which was about a Hundred and Thirty Years old. But the Inßcription was very hardly legible. Quandoquidem remanent ipßis quoq fata Sepulchris! So ßoon do even our Sepulchres die! Strange, that Men ßhould be ßo careful about them! But are not many ßelf-condemned therein? They ßee the Folly, while they run into it. So poor Mr. Prior, ßpeaking of his own Tomb, has thoße melancholy Words, "For this laßt Piece of human Vanity, I bequeath five Hundred Pounds." Tuesday, 22. We rode thro' a pleaßant Country, to Thorny hill, near which is the grand Seat of the Duke of Queenßborough. How little did the late Duke imagine, that his Son would Plow up his Park, and let his Houße run to ruin! But let it go? In a little Time the Earth itßelf and all the Works of it ßhall be bunt up. HENCE we rode thro', and over huge Mountains, green to the very Top, to Lead-hills, a Village containing five hundred Families, who have had no Minißter for theße four Years. So in Scotland, the poor have not the Goßpel preached! We ßhall anßwer for the Blood of theße Men? Early in the Evening we came to Leßinabágow, a Village not ßo large as Lead-hills. It has however Two Minißters. Here alßo we walked down to the Church-Yard, by the Side of which a little, clear River runs, near the Foot of an high and ßteep Mountain. The Wood which covers this makes the Walks that run on its Sides, pleaßant beyond Imagination. But what Taßte have the good People of the Town for this? As much as the Animals that graze on the River-bank. Wedneßday, 23. We took Horße ßoon after four, and did not ßtop before we came to Glaßgow: Having hardly ßeen a Cloud in the Sky, ßince we ßet out from Whitehaven. I PREACHED at ßeven in the Poor-houße: And at ßeven in the Morning, Thurßday, 24. But in the Evening we were obliged to be abroad, and I ußed great Plainneßs of Speech. All ßuffered the Word of Exhortion: Some ßeemed to be a little affected. Saturday, 26. I found the little Society which I had joined here two Years ßince had ßoon ßplit in Pieces. In the Afternoon I met ßeveral of the Members of the praying Societies; and ßhewed them what Chrißtian Fellowßhip was, and what need they had of it? About forty of them met me on Sunday, 27. in Mr. Gillie's Kirk, immediately after Evening Service. I left them determined to meet Mr. Gillies weekly, at the ßame Time and Place. If this be done; I ßhall try to ßee Glaßgow again. If not, I can employ my Time better. AT ßeven in the Morning we had a numerous Congregation, tho' ßmall compared to that in the Evening. Yet my Voice was ßo ßtrengthened, that I believe all could hear. I ßpoke very plain on, Ye mußt be Born again. Now I am clear of the Blood of this People. I have delivered my own Soul. Monday, 28. I rode thro' Edinburgh to Mußßelbourgh, and preached in the Evening to a deeply attentive Congregation. Wedneßday, 30. I rode on to Dunbar, and at ßix in the Evening, preached in a large, open Place, (as alßo the next Day.) Both poor and rich quietly attended, tho' moßt of them ßhivering with Cold: For the Weather was ßo changed within a few Days, that it ßeemed more like December than May. 