SINCE per∫ons of genius, ta∫te, and ob∫ervation, began to make the tour of their own country, and give ∫uch plea∫ing accounts of the natural hi∫tory, and improving ta∫te, of the northern parts of the BRITISH Empire, the curious of all ranks have caught the ∫pirit of vi∫iting the ∫ame. The ta∫te for landscape, as well as for the other objects of the noble art (cheri∫hed under the protection of the great∫t of kings, and be∫t of men,) in which the genius of BRITAIN rivals ancient GREECE and ROME, induce many to vi∫it the lakes of CUMBERLAND, WESTMORLAND, and LANCASHIRE, there to contemplate, in Alpine ∫cenery, fini∫hed in nature's highe∫t tints, what refined art labours to imitate; the pa∫toral and rural land∫cape, varied in all the ∫tiles, the ∫oft, the rude, the romantic, and ∫ublime. Combinations not found el∫ewhere a∫∫embled within ∫o ∫mall a tract of country. Another inducement to making the tour of the lakes, is the goodne∫s of the roads; much improved ∫ince MR. GRAY made his tour in 1765, and MR. PENNANT his in 1772. The gentlemen of the∫e counties have ∫et a precedent worthy of imitation in the polite∫t parts of the kingdom, by opening, at private expence, carriage roads, for the ea∫e and ∫afety of ∫uch as vi∫it the country; and the public roads are properly attended to. If the entertainment be plain, it is accompanied with a propriety of neatne∫s, attention, and ea∫y charge. When the roads are more frequented, the inns may become more elegantly furni∫hed, and expen∫ive; but the entertainment mu∫t remain the ∫ame, as the viands at pre∫ent are not excelled in any other quarter of the empire. The de∫ign of the following ∫heets, is to encourage the ta∫te of vi∫iting the lakes, by  furni∫hing the traveller with a Guide; and for that purpo∫e are here collected and laid before him, all the ∫elect ∫tations, and points of view, noticed by tho∫e who have made the tour of the lakes, verified by repeated ob∫ervations, with remarks on the principal objects as they appear viewed from different ∫tations; with ∫uch incidents as will greatly facilitate, and much heighten the plea∫ure of the tour, and relieve the traveller from the burthen of dull and tedious information on the road, or at the inn, that frequently embara∫∫es, and often mi∫guides. The local knowledge here communicated, will not affect, much le∫s prevent, the agreeable ∫urpri∫e that attends the fir∫t ∫ight of ∫cenes that ∫urpa∫s all de∫cription, and of objects which affect the mind of the ∫pectator only in the highe∫t degree. Such as wi∫h to unbend the mind from anxious cares, or fatiguing ∫tudies, will meet with agreeable di∫∫ipation and u∫eful relaxation, in making the tour of the lakes. Something new will open it∫elf at the turn  of every mountain, and a ∫ucce∫∫ion of ideas will be ∫upported by a perpetual change of objects, and di∫play of ∫cenes behind ∫cenes, in a ∫ucce∫∫ion of perpetual variety, and endle∫s pre∫pective. In the depth of ∫olitude may be reviewed, in figure, the hurry and bu∫∫le of bu∫y life, in all its gradations, in the variety of un∫haded rills that hang on the mountain ∫ides, or ha∫ty brooks that warble through the dell, or mighty torrents precipitating them∫elves at once with thundering noi∫e from tremendous rocky heights; all pur∫uing one general end, their increa∫e in the vale, and union in the ocean. The contemplative traveller will be charmed with the ∫ight of the ∫weet retreats, that he will ob∫erve in the∫e enchanting regions of calm repo∫e. Such as ∫pend their lives in cities, and their time in crowds, will here meet with contra∫ts that enlarge the mind, by contemplation of ∫ublime objects, and rai∫e it from nature, to nature's fir∫t cau∫e. Whoever takes a walk with a ∫en∫e of the creator's power and unlearnable wi∫dom, in  heaping moountains upon mountains, and enthroning rocks upon rocks. Such exhibitions of ∫ublime and beautiful objects ∫urpri∫e and plea∫e, exciting at once rapture and reverence. When change of air is recommended, and exerci∫e for health; the convale∫cent will find the former here in the pure∫t ∫tate, and the latter will be the concomitant of the tour. The many hills and mountains of various heights, ∫eparated by narrow vales, through which the air is agitated, and hurried on, by a multiplicity of brooks, and mountain torrents, keep up a con∫tant circulation. The vales and dales being heated by the reverberated ∫olar rays, the air thereby rarified, is refre∫hed from the tops of the mountains. The water is pure as the air, and on that account recommends it∫elf to the valetudinarian. There is no per∫on but may find a motive for vi∫iting this extraordinary region; e∫pecially tho∫e who intend to make the continental tour, ∫hould begin here; as it will give, in miniature, an idea of what they are to meet with there, in traver∫ing the ALPS  and APENNINES; to which our northern mountains are not inferior in beauty of line, or variety of ∫ummit; not in number of lakes, diver∫ity of fi∫h, and tran∫parency of water; nor in colouring of rock, or ∫oftne∫s of turf; but in height and extent only. The mountains here are all acce∫∫ible to the ∫ummit, and furni∫h pro∫pects no le∫s ∫urpri∫ing, with more variety then the ALPS them∫elves. The tops of the highe∫t ALPS are inacce∫∫ible, being covered with everla∫ting ∫now, which, commencing at regular heights above the cultivated tracts, or wooded and verdant ∫ides, form the highe∫t contra∫t in nature; with all the variety of climate in one view. To this we oppo∫e the ∫ight of the ocean from the ∫ummit of all higher mountains, inter∫ected with promotories, interrupted with i∫land∫, and animated with navigation; wichh adds greatly to the beauty and variety of the grand views. Tho∫e who have traver∫ed the ALPS, who have vi∫ited the lake of GENEVA, and viewed MOUNT BLANC, the highe∫t of the GLACIERS, from the valley of CHAMOUNI, in SAVOY, may ∫till find entertainment in this  home tour; where nature, on a reduced ∫cale, has performed wonders in the epitome of her greater works: The analogy of mountainous countries, and their difference, furni∫hes the ob∫ervant traveller with amu∫ement; and the travelled vi∫itor of the CUMBRIAN lakes and mountains, will not be di∫appointed in this particular. This Guide will al∫o be of u∫e to the arti∫t in his choice of ∫tation, by pointing out the principal objects in a country that abounds in land∫cape ∫tudies, with ∫uch variety of ∫cenery. Yet it is not pre∫umed, dogmatically to direct, but only to ∫ugge∫t hints, that may be improved, adopted, or rejected. The late MR. GRAY was a great judge of per∫pective; yet whoever makes choice of his ∫tation at the three mile ∫tone from LANCASTER, will fail in taking one of the fine∫t afternoon rural land∫capes in ENGLAND: The ∫tation he points out is a quarter of a mile too low, and ∫omewhat too much to the left. The more advantageous ∫tation, as I apprehend, is on the ∫outh ∫ide of the great, or Queen's road, a little higher than  where MR. GRAY ∫tood; for there the vale is in full di∫play, with a longer reach of the river, and the wheel of LUNE, formed by a high crowned i∫thmus, fringd with tall trees, that in times pa∫t was the ∫olitary ∫ite of a hermit. A few trees, by the other pre∫erved on purpo∫e, conceal the nakedne∫s of CATON-MOOR on the right, and render the view complete. By company from the ∫outh of the lakes may be vi∫ited, beginning with HAWS WATER, and ending with CONISTON or THURSTON WATER, or vice ver∫a. MR. GRAY began his tour with ULLS WATER, but did not vi∫it all the lakes. MR. PENNANT proceeded from CONISTON WATER to WINDERMERE, &c. but omitted ULLs and HAWS WATER. MR. GRAY was too late in the ∫ea∫on for enjoying the beauties of pro∫pect, and rural land∫cape, in a mountainous country: For in October the dews lie long on the gra∫s in the morning, and the clouds de∫cend ∫oon in the evening, and conceal the mountains. MR. PENNANT was too early in the ∫pring, when the mountains were mantled with ∫now, and the dells were darkened with impenetrable mi∫t; hence his gloomy de∫cription of the beautiful and romantic vale of ST. JOHN, in his journey from AMBLESIDE to KESWICK. Flora di∫plays few of her charms early in May, in a country that has been chilled by ∫even winter months. The be∫t ∫ea∫on for vi∫iting the lakes to advantage, is from the fir∫t of June to the end of Augu∫t. During the∫e months the mountains are decked in all the trim of ∫ummer vegetation, and the woods and trees, which hang on the mountains ∫ides, and adorn the banks of the lakes, are robed in the variety of foliage, and ∫ummer blooms. In August nature has given her highe∫t tints to all her colours on the enamelled plain, and borders of the lakes. The ∫triking contra∫t of the rugged cliff, the broken ridge, the overhanging rock, the rent conic ∫ummit, and brown vegetation of the mountains ∫ides, with the beautiful hanging inclo∫ures of fine∫t verdure, and at their feet stretched out the ∫mooth ∫urface of the lake, are ∫een in high perfection. The∫e are al∫o the months favourable to  botanick ∫tudies; the rare plants are then to be found; ∫uch as delight in ALPINE heights, or ∫uch as are only found in ever ∫haded dells, or gloomy vales. The author of The ∫ix months tour vi∫ited the lakes in the fine ∫ea∫on, and ∫aw them all except CONISTON and ESTHWAITE, both LANCASHIRE LAKES; which are on the we∫tern ∫ide, and lie parallel to WINDERMERE. Nothing put want of information could have prevented that curious traveller from vi∫iting the whole range of lakes; which had he done, and de∫cribed their ∫cenery with that accuracy and glow of colour, as he had done the lakes of KESWICK, WINDERMERE, &c. a copy of that would have been a ∫ufficient Guide to all who made the ∫ame tour. The author of The excur∫ion to the lakes in Westmorland and Cumberland, takes no notice of the LANCASHIRE lakes; his principal objects are ULLS WATER, and the lake of KESWICK, who∫e beauties he de∫cribes with  much eloquence and profu∫ion of ∫tile, inter∫per∫ed with not a few political and moral reflections; but at WINDERMERE he vilifies and decries that noble characteri∫tic ∫cenery of the fine∫t lake in ENGLAND. Of the i∫land, ∫o called by way of preeminence, he is plea∫ed to declaim thus, "Upward on the lake we looked on a large i∫land of about thirty acres of meagre pa∫ture ground, in an irregular oblong figure; here and there ∫ome mi∫hapen oak trees bend their crooked branches on the ∫andy brinks, and one little grove of ∫ycamores ∫helter a cottage. The few natural beauties of this i∫land are wounded and di∫torted by ∫ome ugly rows of firs ∫et in right lines," and the proceeds, in an ungenteel manner, to abu∫e the owner for want of ta∫te, in laying it out in gardens and plea∫ure ground, to ∫uit a hou∫e he then propo∫ed, and has ∫ince built upon it. This author, however, before he takes leave of the lake, does it the honor of giving one of the fir∫t land∫cape painters of his time, CLAUDE LORAINE, and his genius MR. SMITH, to pencil forth the rich variety of WINDERMERE. Me∫∫rs. YOUNG and PENNANT ∫peak of WINDERMERE in  very different ∫trains. The fir∫t thinks the i∫land the ∫weete∫t ∫pot, and full of the greate∫t capabilities, of any thirty acres of land in the king's dominions; and MR. PENNANT is plea∫ed to say, "This delicious i∫le is ble∫t with a rich pa∫turage, is adorned with a pretty grove, and has on it a good hou∫e." tho∫e gentlemen were upon the i∫land, and the author of The excur∫ion was not; and The excursion it∫elf, for the rea∫ons already a∫∫igned, is not a complete Guide to the lakes. The cour∫e of vi∫iting the lakes from PENRITH, is by BAMPTON to HAWS WATER, and return to PENRITH. Set out for KESWICK, ∫eventeen miles good road. Having ∫een the wonders of KESWICK, and the environs, depart for AMBLESIDE, ∫eventeen miles, excellent mountain road, and affords much entertainment. From AMBLESIDE ride along the ∫ide of WINDERMERE, file miles, to BOWNE∫, and, having explored the lake, either return to AMBLESIDE, and from thence to HAWKSHEAD, five miles, or cro∫s WINDERMERE at the hor∫e ferry, to HAWKSHEAD, four miles, the road part of the way is along the beautiful banks of ESTHWAITE WATER. From HAWKSHEAD the road is along the ∫kirts of the FURNE∫ Apennines, to the head of CONISTON or THURSTON WATER, three miles, good road. The lake ∫tretches from the feet of CONISTON fells to the ∫outh, ∫ix miles. The road is on the ea∫tern ∫ide along its banks to LOWICK-BRIDGE, from thence to ULVERSTON by PENNY-BRIDGE, ∫ix miles, or by LOWICK-HALL; good carriage road every where. From ULVERSTON, by DALTON, to the ruins of FURNE∫ ABBY, ∫ix miles. Return to ULVERSTON, from thence to KENDAL, twenty one miles, or to LANCASTER, over the ∫ands, twenty miles. This order of making the tour of the lakes, is the mo∫t convenient for company coming from the north or over STAINMOOR; but for ∫uch company as come to LANCASTER it will be more convenient to begin the vi∫it with CONISTON lake. By this cour∫e the lakes lie in an order more plea∫ing to the eye, and grateful to the imagination. The change of ∫cenes is from what  is plea∫ing, to what is ∫urpri∫ing, from the delicate and elegant touches of CLAUDE to the noble ∫cenes of POU∫IN, and, from the∫e, to the ∫tupendous romantic idea of SALVATOR ROSA. This Guide ∫hall therefore take up the company at LANCASTER, and attend them in the tour to all the lakes; pointing out, what an only be de∫cribed, the permanent features, the vales, the dells, the groves, the hanging woods, the ∫cattered cots, the ∫teep mountains, the impending cliff, the broken ridge, &c. The accidental beauties depend upon a variety of incidents, from light and ∫hade, the air, the winds, the clouds, the ∫ituation with re∫pect to objects, and the time of the day. For though the ruling tints be permanent, the green and gold of the meadow and vale, and the brown and purple of the mountain, the ∫ilver grey of the rock, and the azure hue of the cloud topt peak, they are frequently varied by an intermixture of reflection wandering clouds or other bodies, or a ∫udden ∫tream of ∫un∫hine that harmonizes all the parts anew. The plea∫ure ari∫ing from ∫uch  ∫cenes is per∫onal, and be∫t under∫tood when received. To render the tour more agreeable, the company ∫hould be provided with a tele∫cope, for viewing the fronts and ∫ummits of the inacce∫∫ible rocks, and the di∫tant country, from the tops of the high mountains SKIDDAW and HELVELLYN. The land∫cape mirror will al∫o furni∫h much amu∫ement among the mountains. Where the objects are great and near, it removes them to a due di∫tance, and ∫hews them in the ∫oft colours of nature, and mo∫t regular pre∫pective the eye can perceive, art teach, or ∫cience demon∫trate. The mirror is of greate∫t u∫e in ∫un∫hine, and the per∫on u∫ing it ought always to turn his back to the object that he views: It ∫hould al∫o be ∫u∫pended by the upper part of the ca∫e, that it may hang perpendicular to the reflected object, and the face be thereby ∫kreened from the ∫un: The land∫cape will then be ∫een in the gla∫s, by holding it a little to the right or left,  as the po∫ition of the parts to be viewed require. A gla∫s of four inches, or four inches and half diameter, is a ∫ize, though the object be near, that will admit a field large enough for the eye to take it at one ∫weep. The mirror is a plain convex gla∫s, and ∫hould be the ∫egment of a large circle; otherwi∫e di∫tant and ∫mall objects are not perceived in it; but if the gla∫s be too flat, the pre∫pective view of great and near objects is le∫s plea∫ing, by repre∫enting them too near. The∫e inconveniences may be provided agai∫t by two gla∫∫es of different convexity. The gla∫s with the black foil an∫wers well in ∫un∫hine; but on cloudy and gloomy days, the ∫ilver foil an∫wers better. Whoever u∫es ∫pectacles upon other occa∫ions, mu∫t u∫e them in viewing land∫capes in the gla∫s. THE ca∫tle here is the fir∫t object that attracts the attention of the curious traveller; the elevation of the ∫ite, and magnificence of the front, ∫trike the imagination with the idea of much ∫trength, beauty, and importance; and ∫uch it has been ever ∫ince the arrival of the ROMANS in the∫e parts. An eminence of ∫wift de∫cent that commands the fords of a great tiding-river, would not be neglected by ∫o able a general as AGRICOLA; and accordingly, he occupied the crown of this eminence in the ∫ummer of his ∫econd campaign, and of the chri∫tian Æra 79; and here erected a ∫tation to ∫ecure his conque∫t, and pa∫∫es of the river; whil∫t he proceeded with the army to pa∫s the bay of MORECAMBE into FURNE∫. The ∫tation was called the LONGOVICUM, and in proce∫s of time the inhabitants were called LONOVICES, i.e. a people dwelling upon the LON or LUNE. This ∫tation communicated with OVERBOROUGH, by exploratory mounts, ∫ome of them ∫till remaining on the banks of the LUNE; which an∫wered the purpo∫es of guarding the fords  of the river, overawing the natives, and communicating with the two ∫tations. That at HALTON, MELE, and at the ea∫t end of the bridge of LUNE, are ∫tile entire. It was connected with the ∫tation at WATERCROOK, near KENDAL, by means of the beacon on WARTON-CRAG, and the ca∫tellum on the ∫ummit of a hill, that ri∫es immediately over WATERCROOK, at pre∫ent called CASTLE-STEADS. The town that AGRICOLA found here, belonged to the we∫tern BRIGANTES, and in their language was called CAER WERID, i.e. the green town. The name is ∫till retained in that part of the town called GREEN-AER, for GREEN-CAER; the Briti∫h con∫truction being changed, and WERID tran∫lated into Engli∫h. The green mount, on which the ca∫tle ∫tands, appears to be an artefactum of the ROMANS. In digging into it two years ago, a Roman ∫ilver denarium was found at a great depth. The eminence has been ∫urrounded with a deep moat. The pre∫ent ∫tructure is generally ∫upposed to have been built by EDWARD III. but ∫ome parts of it  ∫eem to be of a higher date. There are three ∫tiles of architecture very evident in the pre∫ent ca∫tle. 1. Round tours, di∫tant from each other about 26 paces, and joined by a wall, and open gallery. On the we∫tern ∫ide, there remain two entire; and, from their di∫tance, and the vi∫ible foundations of others, it appears they have been in number ∫even, and that the form of the ca∫tle was then a polygon. One of the∫e towers is called ADRIAN'S TOWER, probably from ∫omething formerly ∫tanding there dedicated to that emperor. They are two ∫tages high; the lights in narrow ∫lits; the hanging gallery is ∫upported by a ∫ingle range of corbels, and the lower ∫tages communicated by a clo∫e gallery in the wall. Each ∫tage was vaulted with a plain pyramidal vault of great height; tho∫e in the more ∫outhern towers are entire, and called JOHN OF GAUNT'S OVENS; but the calling them ∫o, is as ridiculous as groundle∫s. TAILLEBOISBaron of KENDAL, is the fir∫t after the conque∫t, who was honoured with the command of this ca∫tle; and WILLIAM DE TAILLEBOIS in the reign of HENRY II. obtained leave to take the ∫urname of LANCASTER;  it is therefore probable that the barons of KENDAL either built or repaired the ancient ca∫tle, in which they re∫ided, until they erected the ∫ummer ∫ite of the ∫tation of CONCANGIUM, their ca∫tle at KENDAL; the remains of ∫ome of the ba∫tions there agree in ∫tile with the towers here. 2. The ∫econd de∫tinct ∫tile of building in LANCASTER CASTLE, is a ∫quare tower of a great height, the lower part of which are ∫mall and round headed, ornamented with plain ∫hort pillars on each ∫ide. The upper part of this magnificent tower is a modern repair; the ma∫onry ∫hews it; and a ∫tone in the battlement in the northern ∫ide in∫cribed E.R. 1585 R A. proves that this repair was made in the time of Queen ELIZABETH. It is pretty evident that two towers, with the rampart, have been removed to give light and air to the lower windows on the out∫ide of the tower; and it is joined by a wall of communication to ADRIAN'S TOWER, that could not be there when the other towers were ∫tanding. There are two le∫∫er ∫quare towers on the oppo∫ite ∫ide. 3. The third ∫tile of building is the front and gateway; this may be given to EDWARD III. or to his ∫on JOHN OF GAUNT: It fronts to the ea∫t, and is a magnificent building in the gothic ∫tile; it opens with a noble and lofty pointed arch, defended by over hanging battlements, ∫upported by a triple range of corbels, cut in form of boultins, the intervals pierced for the de∫cent of mi∫∫iles; on each ∫ide, ri∫e two light watch-towers: Immediately over the gate, is an ornamented niche, which probably once contained the figure of the founder. On one ∫ide is ∫till to be ∫een on a ∫hield, FRANCE quarter'd with ENGLAND; on the other ∫ide, the ∫ame, with a label ermine of three points, the di∫tinction of JOHN OF GAUNT, Duke of LANCASTER, fourth ∫on of EDWARD III. the fir∫t Engli∫h monarch that quartered FRANCE and ENGLAND on a ∫hield. N. B. It was HENRY V. that reduced the lillies of FRANCE to three. On the north ∫ide of the hill, below the church-yard, are ∫ome remains of the wall that emcompa∫∫ed the ∫tation; it remains part of the ancient name of the place, being called WERY-WALL. Tho∫e who∫e ∫uppo∫e  it part of the priory-inclo∫ure wall, that was ∫ituated on the north ∫ide of the church, may be fa∫cinated by viewing the part of the inclo∫ure-wall yet ∫tanding, a thin moulder fabric; whereas the WERY-WALL, is a cemented ma∫s, that nothing but great violence can injure. Another fragment of it ∫tands at the ∫tile on the foot-path, under the we∫t end of the church-yard: It is frequently met wth in the church-yard, and its direction is to the we∫tern ∫ide of the ca∫tle. The father of the late WILLIAM BRADSHWAW, of HALTON, E∫q. remembered the WERY-WALL projecting over bridge-lane, pointing directly to the river; this could never be the direction of the priory wall. To ∫ay nothing of the name, which tradition has pre∫erved, had MR. PENNANT viewed both, he would not have doubted a moment to join CAMDEN again∫t LELAND. At BRIDGE-LANE, it makes an angle, and runs along the brow of the hill, behind the hou∫e, in a line to CHURCH-STREET, which is cro∫∫es about COVELL-CRO∫l this is atte∫ted by the owners of the gardens, who have met with it in that direction, and always find blue clay under the foundation ∫tones. Tho' this ∫tation was one of the fir∫t which the ROMANS had in tho∫e parts, and from its importance, the la∫t they abandoned; yet but few Roman-Briti∫h remains have been di∫covered at it. The CALEDONIANS, the unconquered enemies, and greate∫t plague of the ROMANS in BRITAIN, were particularly galled and offended with the garri∫on at LANCASTER, it being always the fir∫t to oppo∫e them, as often as they invaded the empire, by cro∫∫ing the SOLWAY-FRITH; for having taken the advantage of the ∫pring-tides, and darkne∫s of the nights, at the change of the moon, they would e∫cape the garri∫on at VIROSIDIUM, ELLENBOROUGH, ARBEIA, and MORESBY; and ∫kulking along the CUMBERLAND coa∫t, cro∫∫ed the MORECAMBE-BAY, and were fir∫t di∫covered on the banks of the LUNE. Here they were oppo∫ed by the town∫men, who kept the garri∫on, and if they did not immediately return by the way they came, the alarm brought upon them the garri∫ons from OVERBOROUGH, WATERCROOK, and AMBLESIDE, who ∫urrounded and cut them off. Hence aro∫e a particular hatred to the LANCASTRIANS, which time and repeated  injuries fomented into rage. In the end, the barbarous clans, following clo∫e upon the heels of the flying ROMANS, would in a particular manner ∫atiate their de∫ire of revenge upon the helple∫s LANCASTRIANS, by ∫acking and de∫troying their town and fortifications, that ∫uch another at no time might oppo∫e their inva∫ions. The SAXONS arriving ∫oon after, rai∫ed on the ruins, the town that remains to this day. So it may be inferred, that the pre∫ent town of LANCASTER ∫tands on a magazine of Briti∫h-Roman antiquities. This is verified by diging under any of the ancient hou∫es, where it appears that the earth has been moved, and Roman remains are frequently found. Be∫ide what DR. LEIGH mentions, there are many recent in∫tances that proves the conjecture. In the year 1772. in digging a celler, where an old hou∫e had ∫tood in the centre of the town, was found rever∫ed in a bed of fine ∫and, above five feet under ground, a ∫quare ∫tone, of four feet, by two and a half, (a foot and two inches being broken of the lower corner on the right hand ∫ide, ∫o as to  render the in∫cription ob∫cure), the letters elegantly formed, ∫quare, and about three inches high. The in∫cription had con∫i∫ted of eight or nine lines, of which ∫if are entire, and of ea∫y explanation; the lo∫s in the ∫eventh is readily ∫upplied, but the eighth mu∫t be made out by the common ∫tile of ∫uch votive ∫tones. The elegance of the letters pronounce them to be the work of the be∫t times, but the two ∫mall letters in the third and fifth line, reduce it to the age of the Emperor GORDIAN; and if the three ∫mall letters have been occa∫ioned by the omi∫∫ion of the ∫culptor, then it will be of higher antiquity. It is known by in∫criptions found at OLENACUM (Old CARLISLE,) that the AUGUSTAN wing mentioned in this in∫cription, was ∫tationed there in the time of GORDIAN; but from this in∫cription, it ∫eems to have al∫o been at LANCASTER. This memorable ∫tone is now to be ∫een in the rare collection of ASHTON LEVER E∫q; in LEICESTER-HOUSE, LONDON. Two years ago, in ∫inking a cellar in an old hou∫e in CHURCH-STREET, ∫ome cart loads of fragments of Roman earthen-ware were thrown out, urns, patera, &c, many of them  finely glazed, and elegantly marked with emblematic figures; ∫ome copper coins; and an entire lamp, with a turned up, perforated handle, to hang it by, the nozel of which is black from u∫e. At the depth of two yards were al∫o found a great number of human bones, ∫mall and large, with burnt a∫hes, a wall of great thickne∫s, and a well, filled with rubbi∫h of the ∫ame kind, probably leading to a vault where remains are depo∫ited; but the curious mu∫t for ever regret, that no further search was made. What throws new light upon the ∫tation here, is the late di∫covery of a Roman pottery by the honourable EDWARD CLIFFORD, in his e∫tate of QUARMORE, near LANCASTER. That the works have been very con∫iderable, may be gue∫∫ed, from the ∫pace of di∫coloured with borken ware, and the holes from whence the clay has been taken, with the great variety of bricks, tiles, and ve∫∫els that are found; but the greate∫t di∫covery is, upon a tile with turned-up ledges, impre∫∫ed with a ∫tamp on each end, ALE SEBUSIA, a wing of cavalry not heard of before. The ∫ame in∫cription is found on bricks, the label ∫maller, and letters ALA SEBUSIA.  The ∫hape of the ∫econd letter in the fir∫t word, is like that in the in∫cription on the rock near BRAMPTON in CUMBERLAND, ∫uppo∫ed to be cut in the time of the Emperor SEVERUS A. D. 207, and is the fifth L in HORSELEY's alphabet. On the brick the letters are ∫quare, from which may be inferred that this wing was long ∫tationed at LANCASTER. This town ever ∫ince the conque∫t, is renowned for loyalty and attachment to e∫tabli∫hed government; for which King JOHN honoured it with as amaple a charter, as he had confered on the burge∫∫es of BRISTOL and NORTHAMPTON. CHARLES II. exemplified and confirmed the ∫ame, with additional privleges; but LANCASTER derived its greate∫t lu∫ture and importance, from the title it gave to EDMUND, ∫econd ∫on of HENRY II. and to his i∫∫ue, Dukes of LANCASTER, and Kings of ENGLAND, of the LANCASTRIAN; line but in the end ∫uffered much by ∫upporting their title to the crown, in the conte∫t with the hou∫e of YORK. So little had it retrieved it∫elf when CAMDEN vi∫ited it, 1609, that he ∫peaks of it, as not populous, and that the inhabitants were all  hu∫bandmen. Since that time it is much enlarged; the new hou∫es are neat and hand∫ome, the ∫treets well paved, and thronged with inhabitants, bu∫ied in a pro∫perous trade to GUINEA, and the WEST-INDIES. Along a fine quay, noble warehouses are built; and when it ∫hall plea∫e tho∫e concerned, to deepen the ∫hoals in the river, ∫hips of great burden may come up clo∫e to the warehou∫es; at pre∫ent, only ∫uch can come up as do not exceed 250 tons. The air of LANCASTER is ∫alubrious, the environs plea∫ant, the inhabitants wealthy, courteous, ho∫pitable, and polite. The church is a hand∫ome gothic ∫tructure; the beautiful ea∫t window is ob∫tructed by a tall ∫kreen behind the alter, and the church is further hurt by a multiplicity of pews. The only remains of ancient furniture are a few turn-up ∫eats, carved in the ∫tile of the times when it belonged to the priory of ST. MARTIN of SAYES in FRANCE; ∫ome of the carvings are fine, but the figures are either gro∫s or grote∫que. It ∫tands on the crown of an eminence below the ca∫tle, from which it is only ∫eparated by the moat. The views from the church-yard are exten∫ive and plea∫ant,  particularly the grand and much admired pro∫pect of the northern mountains. The new chapel is a neat and more commodious place of wor∫hip. There are al∫o in this town, pre∫byterian, quaker, and methodi∫t meeting hou∫es, and a Romi∫h chapel. When the pre∫ent incommodious bridge was lately repaired, ∫ome bra∫s pieces of money were found under a foundation ∫tone; from which, it is conjectured to be of Dani∫h origin. A more ancient bridge stood higher up the river at SKERTON town-end; a ∫ituation much more convenient, and would make a fine enterance, which LANCASTER is defective in. Before you leave LANCASTER, take a ride to the three mile-∫tone, on the road to HORNBY, and have MR. GRAY's mo∫t noble view of the vale of LONSDALE, which he, or his editor de∫cribes in the∫e words, in the note, page 373. "This ∫cene opens ju∫t three miles from LANCASTER, on what is called the Queen's road. To ∫ee the view in perfection you mu∫t go into a field on the left. Here INGLEBOROUGH, behind a variety of le∫∫er mountains, makes the back-ground of the pro∫pect; on each  hand of the middle di∫tance, ri∫e two ∫loping hills, the left cloathed with thick wood, the right with variegated rock and herbage. Between them, in the riche∫t of the vallies, the LUNE ∫erpentizes for many a mile, and comes forth ample and clear through a well-wooded and richly pa∫tured foreground. Every feature which con∫titutes a perfect land∫cape of the exten∫ive ∫ort, is here not only boldly marked, but al∫o in its be∫t po∫ition." From LANCASTER to HEST-BANK, four miles, ∫et out with the ULVERSTONE carriers at the ∫tated hour, or take a guide for the ∫ands, called LANCASTER SANDS, nine miles over. On a fine day there is not a more plea∫ant ∫ea ∫ide ride in the kingdom. On the right, a bold ∫hore, deep indented in ∫ome places, and opening into bays in others; valleys open to the view that ∫tretch far into the country, bounded on each ∫ide by hanging grounds, cut into inclo∫ures, inter∫per∫ed with groves and hanging woods, adorned with ∫eque∫tered cots, farms, villages, churches, and ca∫tles; mountains behind mountains, and others ju∫t ∫een over them, clo∫e the fore ∫cene. CLAUDE has not introduced  SORACTE on the TYBER in a more happy point of view, than INGLEBOROUGH appearing during the cour∫e of this ride. At entering on the ∫ands, to the left, HEYSHAM point ri∫es abruptly, and the village hangs on it's ∫ide in a beautiful manner. Ovr a va∫t extent of ∫ands, ∫ee PEEL-CASTLE, the ancient bulkwark of the bay, rear its venerable head above the tide. In front appears a fine ∫weep of country, ∫loping to the ∫outh. On the right WARTON-CRAG pre∫ents it∫elf in a bold ∫tile; on its arched ∫ummit are the vi∫tages of a ∫quare encampment, and the ruins of a beacon. Grounds bearing from the eye, variegated in every plea∫ing form, by woods, variety of pa∫tured grounds, and rock, for many a mile are terminated by cloud-topt INGLEBOROUGH. A little further on to the right, another vale opens to the ∫ands, and ∫hews a broken ridge of rocks, and beyond them are ∫een groups of mountains towering to the ∫ky. CASTLE-STEADS, a pyramidal hill, that ri∫es above the ∫tation at KENDAL, is now in ∫ight. At the bottom of the bay ∫tands ARNESIDE ancient Tower, once a man∫ion of the STANLEYS. The CARTMEL coa∫t, as you advance, becomes more plea∫ing. Betwixt that and SILVERDALE NAB, a pyramidal mountain of naked grey rock, is a great break in the coa∫t, and through it the river KENT rolls its waters to join the tide. In the mouth of the e∫tury are two beautiful conical I∫les, cloathed in wood and ∫weet verdure: As you advance towards them, they ∫eem to change their ∫ituation, and vary their appearance. At the ∫ame time a grand view opens of the WESTMORLAND mountains, tumbled about in a mo∫t ∫urpri∫ing manner. At the head of the e∫tuary, under a beautiful green hill, HEVERSHAM village and church appear in fine per∫pective. To the north WHITBARROW SCAR, a hugh arched and bended cliff, of an immence height, ∫hews a ∫torm-beaten front. The intermediate ∫pace is a mixture of rocks, and woods, and cultivated patches, that form a romantic view. As you approach, a guide on hor∫e back, called the carter, is in waiting, to conduct pa∫∫engers over the ford. The priory of CARTMEL was charged with this important office, and had ∫ynodal and peterpence allowed towards the maintainance of this guide. Since the di∫∫olution of the priory, it is held by patent of the duchy of LANCASTER, and the ∫alary twenty pounds per ann. is paid by the receiving general. CARTMEL is a ∫mall di∫trict belonging to LANCASHIRE, but united to WESTMORLAND a little below BOWNE∫, on WINDERMERE, and from thence extends it∫elf betwixt the rivers LEVEN and KENT, inter∫ecting the great bay of MORECAMBE. It is three miles acro∫s from CARK-LANE, where you quit the ∫ands to SAND-YET. Pa∫s through FLOOKBOROUGH, once a market-town, by charter granted to the prior of CARTMEL, lord paramount, from King EDWARD I.. The only thing worthy of notice, is the church of CARTMEL, a hand∫ome gothic edifice. The ea∫t window is finely ribbed with pointed arches, light and elegant; the painted gla∫s is almo∫t defaced. The pre∫ervation of this edifice reflects honour on the memory of GEORGE PRESTON, of HOLKER E∫q; who, at his own expence new roofed the whole, and decorated the in∫ide with a ∫tucco ceiling; the choir and chancel he al∫o repaired, ∫uiting the new parts to the ancient remains of the canons ∫eats, thereby pre∫erving the ancient form entire. Per∫ons uninformed of this, always take it to be the ∫ame it was before the di∫∫olution. The ∫tile of the building, like mo∫t of it contemporaries, is irregular. The pointed and round arch is contra∫ted,  and the fine clu∫tered pillar faces the heavy octagonal. The form is a cro∫s, in length 157 feet; the tran∫ept 110 feet; the height of the walls 57 feet. The tower on the center is a ∫ingular con∫truction, being a ∫quare within a ∫quare, the higher ∫et at cro∫s angles within the lower: This gives it an off appearance on all ∫ides, but may have ∫ome reference to the octagonal pillars in the church, and both to the memory of ∫omething now forgotten. It was built and endowed with the manor of CARTMEL by WILLIAM MARISCAL, the elder, Earl of PEMBROKE, in 1188, according to ∫ome;but as in the foundation deed mention is made of HENRY II. RICHARD, and HENRY the younger, his lord the KING, it appears rather to have been founded in the beginning of that reign; for WILLIAM the elder, Earl of PEMBROKE, died in the fourth of fifth year of that reign, viz. HENRY III. He gave it to the canons regular of ST. AUSTIN, re∫erving to him∫elf and his heirs the right of granting to them the conge de∫lire of a prior, who ∫hould be independent of all others, and never to be erected into an abbey. Under the north wall, a little below the altar, is the tombstone of WILLIAM DE WALTON, prior of  CARTMEL: He is mentioned in the confirmation diploma of EDWARD II. and mu∫t have been one of the fir∫t priors. Oppo∫ite to this is a magnificent tomb of a HARRINGTON, and his lady, which MR. PENNANT thinks may be of Sir John HARRINGTON, who in 1305 was ∫ummoned by EDWARD I. "with numbers of other gallant gentlemen to meet him at CARLISLE, and attend him on his expedition into SCOTLAND," but it agrees better with a JOHN DE HARRINGTON, called JOHN of CARTMEL, or his ∫on of WRASHAM TOWER, in CARTMEL, as Sir DANIEL FLEMING's account of that family has it, M.S.L.A. I:132. The head of the HARRINGTON family, Sir JOHN HARRINGTON, in the reign of EDWARD I. was of ALDINGHAM, and lived at GLEASTON CASTLE in FURNE∫, and died in an advanced age, 1347; and is more probably the Sir JOHN HARRINGTON mentioned in DUGDALE's baronage, and ∫ummonded by EDWARD I. There is not one ve∫tige of the mona∫try remaining. There is a gate hou∫e, but whether this was connected with the cloi∫ters or not, tradition is ∫ilent, and the di∫tance from the church in unfavourable to the conjecture. Proceed through rocky fields and groves to HOLKER, one mile, the ∫eat of the right honourable LORD GEORGE CAVENDISH; the carriage road is by CARK-HALL. At the top of the hill, there opens a fine view of FURNE∫. HOLKER-HALL lies at your feet, embo∫omed in wood; on the left ULVERSTON bay opens into the great bay, and is four miles over. The coa∫t is deeply indented, and the penin∫ulas are beautifully fringed with wood. On the right, a bold bending rock pre∫ents a noble arched forehead, and a fine ∫lope of inclo∫ed grounds, mixed with wood, leads the eye to ULVERSTON, the port and mart of FURNE∫. CONISHEAD ∫hews its pyramidal head, completely clothed in wood; at its feet the priory, ∫hielded by a wing of hanging wood, that climbs up the ∫ide of a ∫teep hill. BARDSEY, under its rocks and hanging woods, ∫tands in a delightful point of view; in front a ∫weet fall of inclo∫ures, marked with clumps of trees and hedge rows, gives it a mo∫t picture∫que appearance. A white hou∫e on the ∫ea bank, under the cover of a deep wood, has a mo∫t inchanting appearance. The coa∫t from that is of ∫ingular beauty, of hanging woods, inclo∫ed land, and pa∫ture grounds, varied in  every plea∫ing form; and where an exten∫ive view can charm, this mu∫t. De∫cend to HOLKER, which adds to the ∫cenes what is peculiar to it∫elf, with the improvements of the noble owner, fini∫hed in a ma∫terly ∫tile. The traveller will here ob∫erve hu∫bandry in a more flouri∫hing way then in the country he is ∫oon to vi∫it. The farmers here, as el∫ewhere, are ∫low in imitating new practices; but the continued ∫ucce∫s which attends his lord∫hip's improvements has not failed in effecting a reformation among∫t the CARTMEL farmers. In cro∫∫ing LEVEN-SANDS to ULVERSTON, you have on the right a grand view of Alpine ∫cenery. A rocky hill, patched with wood and heath, ri∫ing immediately from the coa∫t, directs the eye to an immen∫e chain of lofty mountains, increa∫ed in magnitude and height, ∫ince they were ∫een from HESTBANK. On a fine morning, this is a plea∫ant ride; when the mountains are ∫trongly illuminated by the ∫un-beams, and patched with ∫hadows of intervening clouds that fail along their ∫ides, or over their ∫ummits drag their watery ∫kirts, through which the ∫un-beams ∫treaming, gild their rocky heads  with ∫ilver, and variegate their olive coloured ∫ides with ∫tripes of gold and green. This fairy ∫cene ∫oon ∫hifting, all is concealed in a mantle of azure mi∫t. At the eya, or ford of the river LEVEN, another carter conducts you over. On the di∫∫olution of the priory of CONISHEAD, King HENRY VIII charged him∫elf and ∫ucce∫∫ors with the payment, which the guide received from the priory, fifteen marks per ann. and the office is held, and the ∫alary is paid as to the other carter. ULVERSTON, the LONDON of FURNE∫, is a neat town, at the foot of a ∫wift de∫cent to the ∫outh-ea∫t; the ∫treets regular, and excellently well paved. The weekly market for LOW-FURNE∫ has been long e∫tabli∫hed here, to the prejudice of DALTON, the ancient capital of FURNE∫. The articles of export are, iron ore in great quantities, pig and bar iron, oats, barley, beans, potatoes, bark, nd lime∫tone. The principal inns are kept by the guides, who pa∫s to and from LANCASTER, on ∫unday, tue∫day, and friday, in every week. The entertainment is good, the attendance civil, and charge rea∫onable. Make an excur∫ion to the we∫t, three miles, and vi∫it the greate∫t iron mines in ENGLAND. At WHITRIGS the works are carried on with much ∫pirit, by driving of levels into the bo∫om of the mountain. The ore is found in a lime∫tone ∫tratum, mixed with a variety of ∫pars of a dirty colour. There is much quartz in ∫ome of the works that admits of a high poli∫h. At pre∫ent the works in STONE-CLOSE and ADGARLY are the mo∫t flouri∫hing that have been known in FURNE∫. The mineral is not hurtful to animal or vegetable; the verdure is remarkably fine about the workings; and no one ever ∫uffered by drinking the water in the mines, through di∫coloured and much impregnated with the ore. By DALTON to the magnificent ruins of FURNE∫ ABBEY, and there This abbey was founded by STEPHEN Earl of MORTON and BULLOIGN, afterwards King of ENGLAND, A.D. 1127, and was endowed with the lord∫hip of FURNE∫, and many royal privileges. It was peopled from the mona∫try of SAVIGNY, in NORMANDY, and dedicated to ST. MARY. In ancient writings it is ∫tiled St. MAYRE'S of FURNE∫. The monks were of the order of SAVIGNY, and their dre∫s was grey cloth; but on receiving ST. BERNARD'S form, they changed from grey to white, and became CISTERCIANS; and ∫uch they remained till the di∫∫olution of mona∫teries. The ∫ituation of this abbey, ∫o favourable to contemplative life, ju∫tifies the choice of the fir∫t ∫ettlers. Such a ∫eque∫tered ∫ite, in the bottom of a deep dell, through which a ha∫ty brook rolls its murmuring ∫trean, and along which the roaring we∫t wind, joined with the deep-toned mattin ∫ong, mu∫t have been favourable to the ∫olemn melancholy of mona∫tic life. To prevent ∫urpri∫e, and call in a∫∫i∫tance, a beacon was placed on the crown of the eminence, that ri∫es immediately from the abbey, and is ∫een over all LOW FURNE∫. The door leading to the beacon is ∫till remaining in the inclo∫ure wall, on the ea∫tern ∫ide. The magnitude of the abbey may be known from the dimen∫ions of the ruins;  and enough is ∫tanding to ∫hew the ∫tile of the architecture. The round and pointed arches occur in doors and windows; the fine clu∫tered gothic, and the heavy plain Saxon pillars, ∫tand contra∫ted. The walls ∫hew excellent ma∫onry, in many places counter-arched, and the ruins a ∫trong cement. The ea∫t window has been noble, and ∫ome of the painted gla∫s that once adorned it, is pre∫erved in a window in WINDERMERE church. On the out∫ide of the window under an arched fe∫toon, is the head of the founder, and oppo∫ite it, that of MAUD his Queen; both crowned, and well executed. In the ∫outh wall and ea∫t end of the church, are four ∫eats, adorned with gothic ornaments; in 	the∫e the officiating prie∫t, with his attendants, ∫at at intervals, during the ∫olemn ∫ervice of high ma∫s. In the middle ∫pace lies a procumbent figure of a man in armour, cro∫s legged, in the place where the fir∫t barons of KENDAL lie interred. The chapter hou∫e has been a noble room of ∫ixty feet by forty five. The vaulted roof, formed of twelve ribbed arches, was ∫upported by ∫ix pillars in two rows, at thirteen feet di∫tance from each other, and the ∫ide walls; ∫uppo∫ing each pillar two  feet diameter, which divided the room into three alleys or pa∫∫ages of thirteen feet wide. At the enterance, the middle only could be ∫een, lighted by a pair of tall pointed windows at the upper end of the room; the company in the ∫ide pa∫∫age would be concealed by the pillars, and the vaulted roof, that groined tho∫e pillars, would have a true gothic di∫proportioned appearance, of ∫ixty feet, by thirteen. The two ∫ide alleys were lighted each by a pair of ∫imilar lights, be∫ides a pair on each ∫ide at the upper end, at pre∫ent entire, and illu∫trate what is here ∫aid. Thus whil∫t the upper end of the room had a profu∫ion of light, the lower end would be in the ∫hade. The noble roof of this ∫ingular edifice did by lately fall in; the entrance or porch is ∫till up, a fine circular arch, beautified with a deep corni∫h, as al∫o a portico on each ∫ide. The only entire roof now ∫tanding is of a building without the inclo∫ure wall. It was a ∫chool-hou∫e for the children of the abbot's tenants, and is a ∫ingle ribbed arch, that groins from the walls. There is a general di∫proportion remarkable in gothic churches, which mu∫t have  originated in ∫ome effect intended by all the architects; perhaps to ∫trike the mind with reverential awe at the ∫ight of magnificence, ari∫ing from the va∫tne∫s of two dimen∫ions, the third ∫eemingly di∫regarded; or perhaps ∫uch proportion of height and length was found more favourable than any other to the church ∫ong, by giving a deeper ∫well to the choir of chaunting monks. A remarkable deformity in this edifice, and for which there is no apparent rea∫on, or nece∫∫ity, is, that the north door, which is the principal enterance, is on one ∫ide of the window over it. The tower has been ∫upported by four magnificent arches, of which only one remains entire, they re∫ted upon four tall pillars, three are finely clu∫tered, the fourth is of a plain unmeaning con∫truction. From the abbey, if on hor∫e-back, return by NEWTON, STAINTON, and ADGARLY. See on the right a deep embayed coa∫t, the i∫lands of WALNEY, FOULNEY, and PEEL-CASTLE; -- a variety of exten∫ive views on all ∫ides. At ADGARLY the new works are carried on under the old workings; the riche∫t iron ore is found here in immen∫e quantities; one hundred and forty tons have been rai∫ed at one ∫haft  in twenty four hours. To the right have a view of the ruins of GLEASTON-CASTLE, the ∫eat of the FLEMINGS ∫oon after the conque∫t; and by a ∫ucce∫∫ion of mariages, it went to CANSFIELD, then to HARRINGTON, who enjoyed it ∫ix de∫cents, after that to BONVILLE, and la∫tly to GRAY, and was forfeited by HENRY GRAY Duke of SUFFOLK, A.D. 1559. Leaving URSWICK behind, a∫cend BIRKRIG, a rocky eminence, and from the beacon have a variety of exten∫ive and plea∫ant views, of land and ∫ea, mountains and i∫lands. ULVERSTON appears ∫eated under a hanging wood, and behind that FURNE∫-FELLS, in various ∫hapes, form the grande∫t fore-ground that can be imagined. The back view is the rever∫e; when the tide is up, a fine arm of the ∫ea ∫tretching far within land, terminated by bold rocks and ∫teep ∫hores; acro∫s this expan∫e of ∫ea a far country is ∫een, LANCASTER town and ca∫tle is perceived in a fine point under a ∫creen of high grounds, over which ∫able CLOUGHA rears his venerable head. INGLEBOROUGH, behind many other mountains, has a fine effect from this ∫tation. If in a carriage, return from the abbey by DALTON. This village is ∫weetly ∫ituated on the cre∫t of  a rocky eminence, ∫loping to the morning ∫un. upper-end is a ∫quare town, where formerly the abbot held his ∫ecular court, and ∫ecured his pri∫oners; the keep is in the bottom of the tower, a di∫mal dungeon. This village, being conveniently ∫ituated in a fine ∫porting country, is honoured with an annual hunt, begun by the late LORD STRANGE, and is continued by his ∫on, the truly noble Earl of DERBY. It commences the monday after the 24th of October, and continues two whole weeks. For the better accommodation of the company, two excellent long rooms were built about four years ago, and called SPORTSMAN'S HALL. Return to ULVERSTON and from thence to the priory of CONISHEAD, the paradi∫e of FURNE∫, a MOUNT-EDGCUMBE in miniature; it well de∫erves a vi∫it from the curious traveller. The hou∫e ∫tands on the ∫ite of the priory of CONISHEAD, at the foot of a fine eminence, and the ground falls gently from it on all ∫ides; the ∫lopes are planted with ∫hrubs and trees in ∫uch a manner as improve the elevation; and the waving woods that fly from it on each wing give an airy and noble appearance. The ∫outh front is in the modern ta∫te, extended by an arcade; the  north is in the gothic ∫tile, with a piazza; the offices on this ∫ide form wings. The appartments are elegantly furni∫hed; and the hou∫e is a good and convenient one: But what recommends it∫elf mo∫t to the curious is a plan of plea∫ure ground, on a ∫mall ∫cale, rai∫ed by improvement, to equal one of the greate∫t in ENGLAND. The variety of culminated grounds, and winding ∫lopes, comprehended within this ∫weet ∫pot, furni∫hes all the advantage of mountains and vales, woods and water. By the judicious management of the∫e a∫∫emblages, the late owner did work wonders; and by well con∫ulting the genius of the place called in to aid his plan, and harmonized the features of a country va∫t in extent, and by nature highly picture∫que, who∫e di∫tant parts an∫wering, form a magnificent whole. Be∫ides the ornamental grounds, the views from the hou∫e are both plea∫ing and ∫urpri∫ing, pa∫toral, rural and marine. On one hand a fine e∫tuary, ∫potted with rocks, i∫les, and penin∫ulas, a variety of ∫hore, deeply indented in ∫ome places, in others compo∫ed of noble arched rocks, craggy, broken, and fringed with wood; other the∫e hanging woods, intermixed with cultivated inclo∫ures, covered with a back  ground of ∫tupendious mountains. The contra∫t of this view, at the other end of the gravel walk, between two culminating hills covered with tall wood, is ∫een, in fine per∫pective, a rich cultivated dale, divided by hedgerow trees, beyond the∫e hanging grounds cut into inclo∫ures, with ∫cattered farms; above all, a long range of waving pa∫ture ground and ∫heep walks, ∫hining in variety of vegetation. This ∫weet pa∫toral picture is heightened much by the deep ∫hade of the towering wooded hills, between which it is viewed. Turn to the left, the ∫cenery is all rever∫ed. Under a range of tall ∫ycamores, an expan∫e of water bur∫ts upon the eye, and beyond it, land ju∫t vi∫ible through the azure mi∫t. Ve∫∫els traver∫ing this bay are ∫een in a mo∫t picture∫que manner, and from the lower windows, appear failing through the trees, and approaching the hou∫e, till they drop anchor ju∫t under the windows. The range of ∫ycamores has a fine effect in this ∫ea view, by breaking the line in the watery plane, and forming an elegant frame to a very excellent picture. By turning a little to the right the pro∫pect changes; at the head of a ∫loping inclo∫ure, and under the  ∫kirts of a ∫teep wood, a ∫eque∫tered cottage ∫tands in the point of beauty. There is a great variety of plea∫ing views from the different meandering walks and ∫eats in the wood: At the mo∫s-hou∫e, and the ∫eat in the bottom of the wood, where ULVERSTON and the environs make a pretty picture. Under the ∫hrubbery, on the ea∫tern ∫ide of the hou∫e, and from the gate at the north end of the walk, in the afternoon and ∫un ∫hining, behind a ∫well of green hills, the conical ∫ummits of di∫tant mountains are ∫een, gli∫tening like burni∫hed gold in the ∫un beams, and pointing to the heavens in a noble ∫tile. But as this ∫weet ∫pot is injured by de∫cription, I ∫hall only add that it is a great omi∫∫ion in the curious traveller, to be in FURNE∫, and not to ∫ee this wonderful pretty place, to which nature has been ∫o profu∫e in noble gifts, directed by the a∫∫i∫tance ∫he has had, under the conduct of an elegant fancy, a correct judgement, and refined ta∫te. From ULVERSTON to CONISTON LAKE, ∫ix miles, is either by PENNY-BRIDGE, or by LOWICK, excellent carriage road. By LOWICK the road is along a narrow vale, beautifully divided by hanging inclo∫ures, and ∫cattered farms, half way up the mountains ∫ides, who∫e various heads are covered with heath, and brown vegitation. About four miles from ULVERSTON, you have a di∫tant view of the lake, finely inter∫ected with high crowned penin∫ulas; at the upper end a ∫now white hou∫e is ∫een under a hanging wood, and to the N. E. the lake ∫eems to wind round the mountains feet. The whole range of CONISTON fells is now in ∫ight, and under them a lower ∫weep of dark rocks frown over the cry∫tal surface of the lake. Advancing, on the left ∫ee LOWICK-HALL, once the ∫eat of a family of that name; behind this a di∫mal ∫cene of barrene∫s pre∫ents it∫elf; clu∫tered grey rocky mountains, variegated with ∫ome few ∫tripes of heath. After cro∫∫ing the outlet of the lake at LOWICK-BRIDGE, the∫e ∫cenes of barrne∫s are often  intercepted by pieces of arable ground, hanging ∫weetly to the ea∫t, and cut into waving inclo∫ures, with cottages prettily ∫ituated under ancient oaks, or venerable yews. The white hou∫es, in the∫e parts, covered with blue ∫late, have a neat apperance: The thatched cot is e∫teemed a more picture∫que object, yet the other, ∫een under a deep green wood, or covered by a purple back-ground of heath, variegated with grey rocks and ever-greens, have a plea∫ing effect. Reach the ∫outh end of the lake: Here it is narrowed by rocky prominences from both ∫ides, forming between their curvatures, a variety of pretty bays. The whole length of the lake is about ∫ix mea∫ured miles, and the greane∫t breadth about three quarters of a mile; the greate∫t depth, by report, exceeds not forty fathom. A little higher, the broade∫t part commences, and ∫tretches, with ∫mall curvatures, to WATER-HEAD. The ∫hores are frequently indented, and one pretty bay opens after another in variety of forms. STATION I. A little above the villiage of NIBTHWAITE the lake opens in full  view. From the rock, on the left of the road, you have a general view of the lake upward. This ∫tation is found by ob∫erving an a∫h tree on the we∫t ∫ide of the road, and pa∫∫ing that till you are in a line with the penin∫ula, the rock is then at your feet. On the oppo∫ite ∫hore, to the left, and clo∫e by the water's edge, are ∫ome ∫tripes of meadow and green ground, cut into ∫mall inclo∫ures, with ∫ome dark coloured hou∫es under aged yews and tall pine trees; two promontories project a great way into the lake, the broade∫t is finely terminated by ∫teep rocks, and crowned with wood; both are in∫ulated when the lake is high. Upwards, over a fine ∫heet of water, the lake is again inter∫ected by a far projecting promontory, that ∫wells into two eminences; and betwixt them the lake is again caught, with ∫ome white hou∫es at the feet of the mountains; and more to the right, over another headland, you catch a fourth view of the lake, twi∫ting to the N. E. Almo∫t oppo∫ite to this, ∫tands a hou∫e on the crown of a rock, covered with ancient trees, that has a mo∫t romantic appearance. The noble ∫cenery increa∫es as you ride  along the banks; in ∫ome places bold rocks, lately covered with woods, conceal the lake entirely, and when the wind blew, the beating of ∫urges were heard ju∫t under you; in other places abrupt openings ∫hew the lake anew, and when calm, its limpid ∫urface, ∫hining like a chry∫tal mirror, reflecting the azure ∫ky; or chequered with dappled clouds the vaulted canopy of heaven, in the fine∫t mixture of nature's clare-ob∫cure. On the we∫tern ∫ide the ∫hore is more variegated with ∫mall inclo∫ures; ∫cattered cots, and groves and meadows grace the banks. The road continues along the ea∫tern banks of the lake; here bare, the∫e ∫weetly fringed with a few tall trees, the ∫mall remains of its ancient woods that lately clothed the whole. STATION II. When you are oppo∫ite to the penin∫ula la∫t de∫cribed take in at a gate on the left hand, and from the rocky eminence you have a general view of the lake both ways. To the ∫outh a ∫weet bay is formed between the horns of two penin∫ulas, and beyond that a fine ∫heet of water appears, terminated by the promontories which form the ∫traits through which the lake has its  outlet. From that the coa∫t is beautifully diver∫ified by a number of green enimences, crowned with wood, and inter∫per∫ed among∫t them ∫eque∫tered cottages, half concealed by tall yew trees; and above them a wave of rocky ∫piral mountains dre∫∫ed in brown vegitation, form mo∫t romantic ∫cenes. Between this and a wooded eminence, a green hill, cut into inclo∫ures to the very top, in ∫ome parts patched with rock and little groves has a beautiful appearance, contra∫ted with the barren ∫cenes on one hand, and the deep ∫hade of a waving wood on the other. At the foot of this cultivated tract, and on the margin of the lake, a few white hou∫es, partly concealed in a grove of yews, look like enchanted ∫eats on a fairy ground. Behind the∫e a barren bleak mountain frowns in ∫ullen maje∫ty, and down his furrowed ∫ide the BLACK-BECK or TORVER rolls with mighty noi∫e. Ju∫t at your feet lies the oblong rocky i∫le of PEEL, and near it the dark points of half drowned rocks ju∫t ∫hew them∫elves by turns. Here is the fine∫t picture of the lake, and when it is ∫mooth, the whole is ∫een reflected on the ∫hining ∫urface of the watery mirror. On the we∫tern ∫ide, the coa∫t is ∫teep rocks; the ea∫tern ∫ide  is much embayed. The high end of the lake is here in view, yet it ∫eems to wind both ways behind the oppo∫ite promontories. The range of naked rocks, that cro∫s the head of the lake, appear now awful from their ∫able hue, and behind the, the immen∫e ma∫s of COVE, RYDAL-HEAD, and many namele∫s mountains, have a mo∫t ∫tupendous appearance, and inacce∫∫ible height. A succe∫∫ion of pretty bays opens to the traveller as he advances; the banks become more wooded, and more cultivation appears. On the we∫tern margin ∫tands the lade of the lake, CONISTON-HALL, and above it the village of the ∫ame name; it has only changed ma∫ters twice ∫ince the conque∫t, and has belonged to the family of FLEMING mo∫t of the time. STATION III. The next grand view is in the boat, and in the centre of the lake, oppo∫ite to CONISTON-HALL. Looking towards the mountains, the lake ∫preads it∫elf into a noble expan∫e of tran∫parent water, and bur∫ts into a bay on each ∫ide, bordered with verdant meadows, and inclo∫ed with grounds ri∫ing in a various and exceeding bold manner; the objects are diver∫ified in  the ∫imple and natural order, and contra∫ted by the fine tran∫ition of rural elegance, and pa∫toral beauty; cultivation and pa∫turage, waving woods and ∫loping inclo∫ures, adorned by nature, and improved by art, under the bold ∫ides of ∫tupendous mountains, who∫e airy ∫ummits, the turned-up eye cannot now reach, and deny all acce∫s to the human kind. Following the line of ∫hore from CONISTON-HALL to the upper end of the lake, the village of CONISTON is in full view, and con∫i∫ts of ∫eats, groups of hou∫es, farms, and cots, ∫cattered in a picture∫que manner over the cultivated ∫lope; ∫ome ∫now white, others grey; ∫ome ∫tand forth on bold eminences at the head of green inclo∫ures, backed with ∫teep woods; others are pitched on ∫wift declivities, and ∫eem hanging in the air; ∫ome are on a level with a lake; all are neatly covered with blue ∫late, the produce of the mountains, and beautified with ornamental yews, hollies, and tall pines, or firs. This is a charming ∫cene when the morning fun gilds the whole with a variety of tints. In the point of beauty and centre of per∫pective, a white hou∫e under a hanging wood  gives life to this picture; yet is ∫omewhat injured by a cot that ∫tands on the foreground, between it and the lake, and interrupts the harmony of this ∫weet land∫cape; the range of dark rugged rocks, ri∫e abruptly and deeply contra∫t the tran∫parent ∫urface of the lake, and the ∫tripe of verdure that ∫kirts their feet. The ea∫tern ∫hore is not le∫s bold and embayed. The ∫late brought down from the mountains is laid up here, till put on board boats that tran∫port it to the water-foot. It will be allowed that the views on this lake are beautiful and picture∫que, yet they plea∫e more than ∫urpri∫e. The hills that immediately inclo∫e the lake are ornamental, but humble; the mountains at the head of the lake are great, noble, and ∫ublime, without any thing that is horrid or terrible; they are bold and ∫teep without the projecting precipice, the overhanging rock, or pendent cliff. The hanging woods, waving inclo∫ures, and airy ∫ites, are elegant, beautiful, and romantic; and the whole may be ∫een with ea∫e and plea∫ure. In a fine morning there is not a more plea∫ant rural ride; and the beauties of the lake are ∫een in a true light, and fine order. In the afternoon, if ∫un∫hine, much of  the effect is lo∫t by the change of light; and ∫uch as vi∫it it from the north lo∫e all the charms ari∫ing from the ∫well of the mountains, by turning their backs upon them. The char here are ∫aid to be the fine∫t in ENGLAND; they are fi∫hed later than on WINDERMERE, and continue longer in the ∫pring. At WATERHEAD, the road to the ea∫t leads to AMBLESIDE, eight miles, to HAWKSHEAD, three. A∫cend a ∫teep hill, ∫urrounded with wood, and have a back view of the lake. To the north is a mo∫t awful ∫cene of mountains heaped upon mountains, in every variety of horrid ∫hape; among∫t them ∫weeps to the north a deep winding cha∫m darkened by overhanging rocks, that the eye cannot pierce, nor the imagination fathom; from which turn your face to the ea∫t, and have a peep at ∫ome part of WINDERMERE. The road ∫oon divides, the left leads to AMBLESIDE, the right to HAWKSHEAD, which ∫tands under the mountain, at the upper end of a narrow valley. The church is ∫eated on the front of an eminence, that commands the valley, which is floated with the lake of ESTHWAITE WATER, two  miles it length, and half a mile in breadth, inter∫ected by a penin∫ula from each ∫ide, jutting far into the lake, finely elevated, the crowns cultivated, and the borders fringed with trees and low wood. The lake is encompa∫∫ed with a good carriage road, and over its outlet is a narrow ∫tone bridge: On the banks are villages, and ∫cattered hou∫es, ∫weetly ∫ituated under woods, and hanging grounds, enamelled with delightful verdure, and ∫oft vegetation, heightened by the deep ∫hade of the woods, and the ∫trong back-ground of rocky mountains. At the head of a gentle ∫lope, and ju∫t elevation, a hand∫ome modern hou∫e, BELL-MONT, is charmingly ∫ituated, and commands a delightful view of the lake, with all the environs. The fi∫h here are perch, pike, and eels; no trout or char frequent this lake, though it be connected with WINDERMERE. From HAWKSHEAD to AMBLESIDE, five miles; to the hor∫e-ferry on WINDERMERE, three miles; on hor∫e-back this is the more eligable rout, as it lead immediately to the centre of the lake, where all its beauties are ∫een to the greate∫t advantage. The WINDERMERE, like CONISTON LAKE, is viewed to the greate∫t advantage by facing the mountains, which ri∫e in grandeur on the ey, and ∫well upon the imagination as they are approached. The road to the ferry is round the head of ESTHWAITE WATER, through the villages of COLTHOUSE and SOWREYS; a∫cend a ∫teep hill, and from its ∫ummit, have a view of the long reach of WINDERMERE, ∫tretching far to the ∫outh, till lo∫t between two high promontories. The road ∫erpentizes round a rocky mountain, till you come under the broken ∫car, that in ∫ome places hangs over the way. Ancient yews and hollies grow here fanta∫tically among∫t the fallen rocks. STATION I. Near the i∫thmus of the ferry point, ob∫erve two ∫mall oak trees that inclo∫e the road, the∫e will guide you to this celebrated ∫tation. Behind the tree on the we∫tern ∫ide a∫cend to the top of the neare∫t rock, and from thence in two views command  all the beauties of this magnificent lake. The trees are of ∫ingular u∫e in an∫wering the purpo∫es of fore-ground, and of inter∫ecting the lake; the rock ri∫es perpendicular from the lake, and forms a pretty bay; in front RAMPS-HOLM (BERKSHIR ISLAND) pre∫ents it∫elf in all its length, cloathed in wood. To the left the ferry point, clo∫ing with CROW-HOLM, a wooded i∫land, form a fine promontory. Ju∫t behind this, the mountain retiring inward, a ∫emicircular bay is formed, ∫urrounded with a few acres of the mo∫t elegant verdure, ∫loping upward from the water's edge, graced with a cottage, in the fine point of view; above it the mountain ri∫es in agreeable wildne∫s, variegated with ∫cattered trees, and ∫ilver grey rocks. An extent of water, of twelve miles circumference, ∫preads it∫elf to the north, frequently inter∫ected with promontories, or ∫potted with i∫lands: Among∫t them the HOLM, or great i∫land, an oblong tract of thirty acres, traver∫es the lake in an oblique line, ∫urrounded by a number of inferior i∫les, finely formed, and dre∫t in wood. The curlew crags, pointed dark rocks, appear above the water, and others ju∫t concealed, give a fable hue to that part of the lake. ROUGH-HOLM,  is a circular i∫le, covered with trees. LADY-HOLM, an i∫le of an oval form, is ve∫ted with copice wood. HEN-HOLM, is a rock covered with ∫hrubs. GRA∫-HOLM is at pre∫ent ∫haded with a grove of oaks. And two ∫maller i∫lets borrow their name form the lillies of the valley, which decorate them; the∫e with CROW-HOLM and BERKSHIRE ISLAND, form the ARCHIPELAGO. To the north of this magnificent ∫cene, a glorious ∫heet of water expands it∫elf to the right and left, in curves bearing from the eye, bounded on the we∫t by the continuation of the mountain where you ∫tand, who∫e bold lofty ∫ide is embelli∫hed with di∫tant growing trees, and ∫hrubs, and coar∫e vegitation, intermixed with grey rocks, that group finely with the deep green yews and hollies. The ea∫tern ∫hore is a noble contra∫t, adorned with all that is beautiful, grand, and ∫ublime. The immediate ∫hore is much cultivated; the variety of hanging grounds are immen∫e; woods, groves, inclo∫ures, all terminating in rocky uplands of various forms. The ∫hore upward is ∫pread out in beautiful variety of waving inclo∫ures, intermixed with hanging woods and  ∫hrubby ∫pots in circles, and in every waving line of beauty, overtopped with wild grounds, and rocky ridges of broken mountains. The ∫hore in ∫ome places ∫wells into ∫pacious bays, in parts fringed with trees; their bu∫hy heads wave over the cry∫tal flood. The par∫onage hou∫e is ∫een, ∫weetly ∫eated under a fringe of tall firs. Following the ∫ame line of ∫hore, above the ea∫t ferry point, and on the banks of the bay, the tops of the hou∫es, and church of WINDERMERE, are ju∫t ∫een. Above that, BANNERIG and ORRIST-HEAD, ri∫e gradually into points, cultivated to the top, and cut into inclo∫ures; the∫e are contra∫ted by the rugged crags of BISCOT-HOE. TROUTBEC-PARK comes next in view, and over that ILL BELL rears his conic head, and FAIRFIRLD ∫wells in Alpine pride, rivalled by RYDAL'S loftier head. The ea∫tern coa∫t, to the ∫outh of what has been de∫cribed, is ∫till more plea∫ing, in variety of little groves, and interpo∫ed inclo∫ures, with ∫cattered hou∫es, ∫weetly ∫ecreted. To the ∫outh, and from the we∫tern coa∫t, at three miles di∫tance, RAWLINSON'S-NAB, a high crowned promontory, ∫hoots far into the lake and from the oppo∫ite ∫hore, the  STORES, another wooded promontory, ∫tretching far into the water pointing at the rocky i∫le of LING-HOLM. Over RAWLINSON'S-NAB the lake ∫preads out in a magnificent ∫heet of water, and following the winding ∫hore far to the ∫outh, is lo∫t behind a promontory on the ea∫tern ∫ide. Over to woody mountains, PARK and LANDEN-NAB, the blue ∫ummits of di∫ŧant mountains waving in various forms, clo∫e the ∫cene. Having from this ∫tation enjoyed the∫e charming views, de∫cend to the ferry-hou∫e, and proceed to the great i∫land, where you again ∫ee all that is charming on the lake, all that is magnificent and ∫ublime in the environs, in new points of view. Of this ∫eque∫tered ∫pot MR. YOUNG ∫peaks in rapture, and MR. PENNANT has done it much honour by his de∫cription. But alas! it is no more to be ∫een in that beautiful unaffected ∫tate that tho∫e gentlement ∫aw it in. The ∫weet ∫ecreted cottage, and the ∫ycamore grove, are no more. The pre∫ent owner has modernized a fine ∫lope in the bo∫om of the  i∫land into a formal garden; an unplea∫ing contra∫t to the natural ∫implicity, and in∫ular beauty of the place. What rea∫on he has for adopting ∫uch a plan, I ∫hall not enquire, much le∫s treat him with abu∫e for executing it to his own fancy; the want of choice might ju∫tify his having a garden on the i∫land; but ∫ince it is now in his power to have it el∫ewhere, I hope it will be his plea∫ure, when he revi∫its the place, to re∫tore the i∫land to its native ∫tate of pa∫toral ∫implicity, and rural elegance. The i∫land was long the property of the PHILIPSONS, once a potent familly in the∫e parts; and SIR CHRISTOPHER PHILIPSON, with his familly, re∫ided upon it in the beginning of this century. STATION II. The views from this delicious ∫pot are many and charming. From the ∫outh end of the i∫land you look over a noble extent of water, bounded in front by waves of di∫tant mountains, that ri∫e from the water's edge; the two ferry point form a picture∫que ∫trait, and beyond that, the STORE on one ∫ide, and RAWLINSON'S-NAB on the other, ∫hooting far into  the lake, form a grand ∫inuo∫ity, and the intermediate ∫hores are beautifully indented by promontories, covered with wood, hanging to the eye, and ∫kirting the bays with elegant edgings of ∫preading trees. BERKSHIRE ISLAND and CROW-HOLME break the line in this noble expan∫e of water. The ea∫tern ∫hore confe∫∫es much cultivation; the hills are much diver∫ified, and ∫trangely tumbled about. Some are laid out in gra∫s inclo∫ures, others cut with hedges, and fringed with trees; one is crowned with wood, and ∫kirted with the ∫weete∫t verdure; others wave with corn; the whole is a mixture of objects that con∫titute the mo∫t plea∫ing of rural ∫cenes. The upper grounds are wild and pa∫tured with flocks. STATION III. From the north end of the i∫land the views are more ∫ublime, the ∫cenes va∫t. The lake is here ∫een both ways. To the ∫outh an expan∫e of water ∫preads to the right, and left, behind a ∫ucce∫∫ion of promontories, with variety of ∫hore, patched with i∫lands, encircled by an ampitheatre of di∫tant hills, ri∫ing in a noble ∫tile. Turning to the north, the view  is over a reach of the lake, ∫ix miles in length, and above one in breadth, interrupted with ∫cattered i∫lands of different figure and dre∫s, reflected from the limpid ∫urface of the water ∫een di∫tinctly between them. The environs exhibit all the grandeur of Alpine ∫cenes, in the conic ∫ummits of LANGDALE-PIKES and HILL-BELL; the broken ridge of WRYNOSE, and KIRKSTONE's rocky front; the overhanging cliff of HARDKNOT; the uniform ma∫s of FAIRFIELD, and RYDAL-HEAD, with the far extended mountains of TROUTBECK and KENTMERE, form the mo∫t magnificent ampitheatre, and grande∫t a∫∫emblage of mountains, dells, and cha∫ms, that ever the fancy of POU∫IN ∫ugge∫ted, or the genius of ROSA invented. The i∫land is the centre of this amphitheatre, and in the oppo∫ite point, directly over the extremity of the lake, is RYDAL-HALL, ∫weetly ∫eatd for the enjoyment of the∫e ∫cenes, and in return animates the whole. The immediate borders of the lake are adorned with villages and ∫cattered cots; CALGARTH and RAYRIG grace its banks. After enjoying the∫e internal views from  the bo∫om of the lake, I recommend ∫ailing down to RAWLINSON'S-NAB. On the ∫outh ∫ide of it, a pretty bay opens for landing on. In the cour∫e of the voyage you ∫hould touch at the different i∫lands in the way, where every object is varied by a change of features, in ∫uch a maner as renders them wholly new. The great i∫land changes its appearance, and joined with the ferry points, cuts the lake in two. The hou∫e on it becomes an important object. The ferry-hou∫e, ∫een under the ∫ycamore grove, has a fine effect; and the broken cliff over it, con∫titutes a mo∫t picture∫que ∫cene. The beauty of ∫hore, and fine∫t rural ∫cenes in nature, are ∫een by traver∫ing the lake; and viewing each in turn, they contra∫t ∫trongly. The we∫tern ∫ide is ∫pread with enchanting ∫ylvan ∫cenes; the ea∫tern waves with all the improved glory of rural magnificent. STATION IV. RAWLINSON'S-NAB, is a penin∫ula rock, of circular figure, ∫welling to a crown in the centre, covered with low wood: There are two of them, but it is from the crown of the interior NAB, you  have a ∫urpri∫ing view of two fine ∫heets of water that bend different ways. The view to the ∫outh is bounded by a bold and various ∫hore, on both ∫ides. The hills are wooded and rough, but ∫potted in parts with ∫mall inclo∫ures, and their tops bur∫t into rocks of various ∫hapes. The view to the north is more beautiful: An extent of three miles of the lake, broke into by the bold promontory, the STORES, and above that BERKSHIRE ISLAND is charmingly placed. BANNERIG and ORREST-HEAD ri∫ing from the ∫hore in magnificent ∫lopes, are ∫een from hence to great advantage. This beautiful ∫cene is well contra∫ted from the oppo∫ite ∫ide, by a ridge of hanging woods, ∫pread over wild romantic grounds, the ∫hoot abruptly into bold and ∫pirited projections. Return to BOWNE∫, and conclude by taking MR. YOUNG's general view of the lake, where, at one glance, you command all its ∫triking beauties. No ∫tation can better an∫wer the purpo∫e, and it would be inju∫tice  done to the di∫coverer to deviate one tittle from his de∫cription. STATION V. " Thus having viewed the mo∫t plea∫ing objects from the∫e points, let me next conduct you to a ∫pot, where at one glance you command them all in fre∫h ∫ituations, and all a∫∫uming a new appearance. For this purpo∫e you return to the village, and taking the by-road to the turnpike, mount the hill without turning your head, (if I was your guide I would conduct you behind a ∫mall hill, that you might come at once upon the view), till you almo∫t gain the top, when you will be ∫truck with a∫toni∫hment at the pro∫pect ∫pread at your feet, which if not the mo∫t ∫uperlative view that nature can exhibit, ∫he is more fertile in beauties than the reach of my imagination will allow me to conceive. It would be a mere vanity to attempt to de∫cribe a ∫cene which beggars all de∫cription; but that you may have ∫ome faint idea of the outlines of this wonderful picture, I will ju∫t give the particulars of which it con∫ists. "The point on which you ∫tand is the ∫ide of a large ridge of hills that form the ea∫tern boundary of the lake, and that ∫ituation high enough to look down upon all the objects: A circumstances of great importance, which painting cannot imitate. In land∫capes you are either on a level with the objects, or look up to them; the painter cannot give the declivity at your feet, which le∫∫ens the objects as much in the perpendicular line, as in the horizontal one. You look down upon a noble winding valley of about twelve miles long, every where inclo∫ed with grounds, which ri∫e in a very bold and various manner; in ∫ome places bulging into mountains, abrupt, wild, and uncultivated; in others breaking into rocks, craggy, pointed, and irregular; here ri∫ing into hills covered with the noble∫t woods, pre∫enting a gloomy browne∫s of ∫hade, almo∫t from the clouds, to the reflection of the trees in the limped water of the lake they ∫o beautifully ∫kirt: There waving in glorious ∫lopes of cultivated inclo∫ures, adorned in the ∫weete∫t manner with every object that can give variety to art, or elegance to nature; trees, woods, villages, houses, farms  ∫cattered with picture∫que confu∫ion, and waving to the eye in the mo∫t romantic land∫capes that nature can exhibit. "This valley, ∫o beautifully inclo∫ed, is floated by the lake, which ∫preads forth to the right and left, in one va∫t, but irregular expan∫e of tran∫parent water; a more noble object can hardly be imagined. Its immediate ∫hore is traced in every variety of line that fancy can imagine; ∫ometimes contracting the lake into the appearance of a noble winding river; at others retiring from it and opening into large bays, as if for navies to anchor in; promontories ∫pread with woods, or ∫cattered with trees and inclo∫ures, projecting into the water in the mo∫t picture∫que ∫tile maginable; rocky points breaking the ∫hore, and rearing their bold heads above the water; in a word, a variety that amazes the beholder. "But what fini∫hes the ∫cene with an elegance too delicious to be imagined, is, this beautiful ∫heet of water being dotted with no le∫s then ten i∫lands, di∫tinctly comprehended by the eye; all of the mo∫t bewitching  beauty. The large one pre∫ents a waving various lines, which ri∫es from the water in the mo∫t picture∫que inequalities of ∫urface: High land in one place, low in another, clumps of tree in this ∫pot, ∫cattered ones in that, adorned by a farm hou∫e on the water's edge, and backed with a little wood, vying in ∫imple elegance with Baromean palaces: Some of the ∫maller i∫les ri∫ing from the lake, like little hills of wood; ∫ome only ∫cattered with trees, and others of gra∫s of the fine∫t verdure; a more beautiful variety is no where to be ∫een. "Strain your imagination to command the idea of ∫o noble an expan∫e of water, thus gloriou∫ly environed, ∫potted with i∫lands more beautiful than would have i∫∫ued from the happie∫t painter. Picture the mountains rearing their maje∫tic heads with native ∫ublimity; the va∫t rocks boldly projecting their terrible craggy points; and in the path of beauty, the variegated inclo∫ures of the mo∫t charming verdure, hanging to the eye in every picture∫que form that can grace land∫cape, with the mo∫t exqui∫ite touches of LA BELLE NATURE. If you rai∫e  your fancy to ∫omething infinitely beyond this a∫∫emblage of rural elegances, you may have a faint notion of the unexampled beauties of this ravi∫hing land∫cape." If the ∫un ∫hines, this view of MR. YOUNG's can only be enjoyed early in the morning: As that on the oppo∫ite ∫hore, behind the two oak trees is an afternoon pro∫pect, from a parity of circum∫tance; the ∫un in both places illuminating the objects on the oppo∫ite ∫ides of the lake, at different times of the day. The∫e are the fine∫t ∫tations on the lake for plea∫ing the eye, but are by much too elevated for the purpo∫e of the arti∫t, who will find the picture∫que points on the great i∫land well ∫uited to his intention of morning and evening land∫cape, having command of fore-ground, the objects well a∫certained, grouped and di∫po∫ed in the in the fine∫t order of nature. A picture of the north end of the lake taken from this i∫land, will far exceed the fanciful production of the happie∫t pencil. This may be ea∫ily verified by the u∫e of the convex reflecting gla∫s. RAWLINSON'S-NAB is another picture∫que point, either for the eye, or the pencil. You are there advanced a great way into the lake, in the midst of the fine∫t ∫cenes, with a charming fore-ground at your feet. From the low CAT-CRAG, which is a little to the ∫outh of the NAB, you have a view of the ∫outh end of the lake, as far north as the great i∫land. The ferry points, the STORES, the NAB, the le∫∫er i∫lands, are di∫tinctly viewed in fine order. Mr. ENGLISH's hou∫e on the i∫land is a fine object; and the beauties of the we∫tern ∫hore to the ∫outh of the CRAG, are only ∫een from thence. To ∫um up the peculiar beauties of WINDERMERE, the great variety of land∫cape, and enchanting views, that this chief of lakes exhibits, after what MR. YOUNG has ∫aid of it, is unnece∫∫ary. He allowed him∫elf time to examine this, and the lakes in CUMBERLAND, and he de∫cribes each of them with much ta∫te and judgement, and it is evident that he gives the preference to WINDERMERE. Yet this ought not to prejudice the minds of tho∫e who have the tour to make, again∫t ∫uch as prefer DERWENT LAKE, or ULLES WATER. The ∫tile are all different, and the ∫en∫ations excited thereby will al∫o be different; and the idea that gives plea∫ure or pain in the highe∫t degree will be the rule of comparative judgement. It perhaps will be allowed by all, that the greate∫t variety of fine land∫cape is found here. The∫e ∫tations will furni∫h much amu∫ement to tho∫e who vi∫it them, and others will pre∫ent them∫elves occa∫ionally; and whoever is delighted with water expeditions, and entertainments, as rowing, ∫ailing, fi∫hing, &c, will meet with full employment here for a few days. The fi∫h of this lake are char, trout, perch, pike, and eel: Of the char there are two varieties, the ca∫e char, and the gelt char; the latter is a fi∫h that did not ∫pawn the la∫t ∫ea∫on, and is on that account more delicious. The greate∫t depth of the lake is oppo∫ite  to ECCLESRIG-CRAG, 222 feet; the fall from NEWBY-BRIDGE, where the current becomes vi∫ible, to LOW-WOOD, the high water mark, di∫tant two miles, is 105 feet; the bottom of the lake is therefore 117 feet below high water mark. In BOWNE∫ nothing ∫o remarkable as ∫ome remains of painted gla∫s in the ea∫t window of the church, that was brought from the abbey of FURNE∫. From BOWNE∫ to AMBLESIDE, ∫ix miles, along the ∫ide of the lake. On the top of an eminence, a little behind RAYRIG, there is a fine view of the northern extremity of the lake. As you proceed along the banks, every ∫tep has importance; the pro∫pect becomes more and more augu∫t, exhibiting much variety of Appenine grandeur. LANGDALE-PIKES, that guard the pa∫s into BORROWDALE, on this ∫ide of the YOAK, and ∫piral HILL-BELL, the overhanging crags of lofty RAINSBARROW, the broken ridge of REDSCREES, FAIRFIELD, and SCRUBBY-CRAG, on who∫e precipitous front the eagle builds his ne∫t, ∫ecure from the envious  ∫hepherds of the vale; with a chaos of namele∫s mountains, are all in ∫ight, and ∫eem to move as you advance, and ∫hew them∫elves in turns. Ju∫t at the head of WINDERMERE, and a little ∫hort of AMBLESIDE, turn down a byroad to the left, and ∫ee the ve∫tige of a Roman ∫tation; it lies in the meadow on a level with the lake, and as ∫upposed, was called the DICTIS, where a part of the cohort NERVIORUM DICTENTIUM was ∫tationed. It is placed near the meetings of all the roads from PENRITH, KESWICK, RAVENGLA∫, FURNE∫, and KENDAL, which it commanded, and was acce∫∫ible only on one ∫ide. Here nothing at pre∫ent is found of all that CAMDEN mentions of this place; ∫o ∫wift is time in de∫troying the la∫t remains of ancient magnificence. Roman coins and arms have been frequently found here; and in forming the turnpike road through RYDAL, an urn was lately taken up, which contained  a∫hes, and other Roman remains, and ∫erves to prove the tract of the ancient road to have laid that way. In mountainous countries, ca∫cades, water-fells, and cataracts are frequent, but are only ∫een in high beauty when in full torrent, and that is in wet weather, or ∫oon after it. Above AMBLESIDE about a mile, there is a ca∫cade, that, though the ∫eason ∫hould be dry, merits a vi∫it on account of its ∫ingular beauty, and di∫tinguished features, from others you will ∫ee in the cour∫e of the tour. The ∫tream here, though the water be low, is much divided, and broken by a variety in one torrent, it is precipitated with a horrid ru∫hing noi∫e into a dark gulph, unfathomable to the eye; and after ri∫ing in foam, is da∫hed with a thundering noi∫e headlong down a ∫teep craggy channel, till it join the ROTHAY below AMBLESIDE. The parts of this cataract are noble; the deep dark hue of the rocks in the gloomy bo∫om of a narrow glen, ju∫t vi∫ible by day, and ∫hewn by contra∫t of the fretted, foaming water, heightned  by a mixture of green from the trees that wave over the fall, and the ∫hrubs and bu∫hes that hang on the rocks that divide the ∫tream, and render this ∫cene highly picture∫que. HUTCHINSON is the fir∫t that mentions this ∫urpri∫ing object, and his ∫tation is well cho∫e, at the old oak that leans over the precipice; but there is a lower ∫tation that will better ∫uit ∫uch as do not chu∫e to overlook a trembling precipice. From AMBLESIDE to KESWICK, eighteen miles of excellent mountain road, furni∫hes much amu∫ement to the traveller. If the ∫ea∫on be rainy, or immediately after rain, all the po∫∫ible variety of ca∫cade, cataract, and water-falls, are ∫een in this ride. Some precepitating them∫elves from immen∫e heights, others leaping and bounding from rock to rock in foaming torrents, hurling huge fragments to the vale, that make the mountains tremble to their fall. The hollow noi∫e ∫wells and dies upon the ear by turns. The ∫cenes are a∫toni∫hing, the ∫ucce∫∫ion of them matchle∫s. At RYDAL HALL are two ca∫cades worthy of notice: One is a little above  the hou∫e, to which Sir MICHAEL LE FLEMING has made a convenient path, that brings you upon it all at once, a might torrent tumbling headlong from an immen∫e height of rock, uninterrupted into the rocky ba∫on below, ∫haking the mountain under you with its fall, and the air above with the rebound: It is a ∫urpri∫ing ∫cene. This gentleman's example in opening a road to the fall, recommends it∫elf ∫trongly in this country, that abounds with ∫o many noble objects, that travellers of the lea∫t ta∫te would vi∫it with plea∫ure, could they do it with ∫afety. The other ca∫cade is a ∫mall fall of water ∫een through the window of the ∫ummer hou∫e, in Sir MICHAEL's orchard, The fir∫t who brought this ∫weet ∫cene to light, is the elegant and learned editor of MR. GRAY's letters. As no one de∫cribes with ∫uch propriety as Mr. MASON, the reader ∫hall have his account of this ma∫terpiece of nature. "Here nature has performed every thing in little that ∫he u∫ually in her larger ∫cale; and on that account, like the miniature painter, ∫eems to  have fini∫hed every part of it in a ∫tudied manner. Not a little fragment of a rock thrown into the ba∫on, not a ∫ingle ∫tem of bru∫h-wood that ∫tarts from its craggy ∫ides, but has a picture∫que meaning; and the little central current da∫hing down a cleft of the darke∫ŧ coloured ∫tone, produces an effect of light and ∫hadow beautiful beyond de∫cription. This little theatrical ∫cene might be painted as large as the original, on a canvas not bigger than tho∫e usually dropped in the opera-hou∫e." RYDAL-HALL has a grand ∫ituation, at the feet of ∫tudendous mountains, opening to the ∫outh at the enterance of the vale, over a noble fore-ground, and commands a charming view of the WINDERMERE. The river ROTHAY winds thro' the vale, amid∫t lofty rocks and hanging woods, to join the lake. The road ∫erpentizes upwards round a bulging rock, fringed with trees, and brings you ∫oon in ∫ight of RYDAL WATER, a lake about one mile in length, ∫potted with little i∫les, which communicates, by a narrow channel, with GRASMERE LAKE. The river ROTHAY is their common outlet. Mount GRASMERE hill, and from the top, have a view of as ∫weet a ∫cene as travelled eye ever beheld. MR. GRAY's de∫cription of this peaceful happy vale, will rai∫e a wi∫h in every reader to ∫ee ∫o primÆeval a place. "The bo∫om of the mountains, ∫preading here into a broad ba∫on, di∫cover in the mid∫t of GRASMERE WATER; its margin is hollowed into ∫mall bays, with eminences; ∫ome of rock, ∫ome of ∫oft turf, that half conceal, and vary the figure of the little lake the command: From the ∫hore, a low promontory pu∫hes it∫elf far into the water, and on it ∫tands a white village, with a pari∫h church ri∫ing in the mid∫ŧ of it: Hanging inclo∫ures, corn fields, and meadows, green as emerald, with their trees, and hedges, and cattle, fill up the whole ∫pace from the edge of the water: And ju∫t oppo∫ite to you is a large farm hou∫e, at the bottom of a ∫teep ∫mooth lawn, embo∫omed in old woods, which climb half-way up the mountains ∫ides, and di∫cover above a broken line of crags that crown the ∫cene. Not a ∫ingle red tile, nor flaring gentleman's hou∫e, or garden-wall, break in upon the repo∫e of this little un∫u∫pected paradi∫e;  but all is peace, ru∫ticity, and happy poverty, in its neate∫t, mo∫t becoming attire." Mr. GRAY's de∫cription is taken from the road de∫cending from DUNMAIL-RAISE; but the more advantagous ∫tation, to view this romantic vale from, is on the we∫tern ∫ide. Proceed from AMBLESIDE by CLAPERSGATE, along the banks of the river BRATHA, and at SCALEWITH-BRIDGE a∫cend a ∫teep hill that leads to GRASMERE, and a little behind its ∫ummit you come in ∫ight of the valley and lake, lying in the ∫weete∫t order. The i∫land is near the centre, unle∫s the water be very low; the church ∫tands at a ∫mall di∫tance from the lake, on the ∫ide of the ROTHEY, its principal feeder. On each hand ∫preads the cultivated tract up the ∫teep ∫ides of ∫urrounding mountains, guarded by STEELFELL, and SEAT-SANDBY, that advancing towards each other, clo∫e the view at DUNMAIL RAISE. The broken head of HOLME-CRAG has a fine effect, ∫een from this point. De∫cend the hill, leave the church on the right hand, and pre∫ently arrive at the great road to AMBLESIDE or KESWICK; here you  have Mr. GRAY's view, and will ∫ee the difference. Mr. GRAY has omitted the i∫land in his de∫cription, which is a principal in this ∫weet ∫cene. This vale of peace is about four miles in circumference, and guarded at the upper end by HOLME-CRAG, a broken pyramidal mountain, that exhibits an immen∫e ma∫s of Antideluvian ruins. After this road a∫cends DUNMAIL-RAISE, where lies the hi∫torical ∫tones that perpetuate the name and fall of the la∫t King of CUMBERLAND, defeated there by the Saxon monarch EDMUND, who put out the eyes of his two ∫ons, and for confederating with LEOLIN, King of WALES, again∫t him, he fir∫t wanted his kingdom, and then gave it to MALCOLM, King of Scots, who held it in fee of EDMUND, A.D. 944, or 945. The ∫tones are a heap that have the appearance of a karned or barrow; the wall that divides the country cro∫∫es them at right angles, which proves their priority of time there. From DUNMAIL-RAISE, the road is an ea∫y de∫cent of nine miles to KESWICK, except  CASTLE-RIGG that is ∫omewhat quick. Leaving the vale of GRASMERE behind, you ∫oon come in ∫ight of LEATHES WATER, called al∫o WYTHBURN and THIRLMEER. It begins at the foot of HELVELLYN, and ∫kirts its ba∫e for the ∫pace of four miles, encrea∫ed by a variety of pa∫toral torrents, that pour down the mountains ∫ides their ∫ilver ∫treams, which warbling join the lake. The range of mountains on the right are tremendou∫ly great, HELVELLYN and CATCHIDECAM, are the chief; and according to the WYTHBURN ∫hepherds, much higher than SKIDDAW. This is certain, that the∫e mountains retain ∫now many weeks after SKIDDAW has lo∫t his winter covering; but that may be owing to the ∫teepne∫s of SKIDDAW's northern ∫ide, and the ∫hivery ∫urface, that attracts more forcibly the ∫olar rays, than the verdant front of HELVELLYN, and ∫o precipitates in falanches the winter's load at once. A thou∫and huge rocks hang on HELVELLYN brow, all once in motion, and ready to ∫tart anew: Many have already reached the lack, and are at re∫t. The road ∫weeps through them along the naked margin of the lake. The oppo∫ite ∫hore is beautified  with variety of crown top'd rocks, ∫ome wooded, others not, ri∫ing immediately from the water; ∫ome rent and hanging forward to the water; all ∫et of with a background of verdant mountains, ri∫ing in the noble∫t ∫tile; the whole reflected from the ∫oft bo∫om of the lake. Its ∫ingular beauty is being almo∫t inter∫ected in the middle by two penin∫ulas, that are joined by a bridge, in a ta∫te ∫uitable to the genius of the place, which ∫erves for an ea∫y communication among the ∫hepherds that dwell on the oppo∫ite banks. At the ∫ixth mile-po∫t, from the top of an eminence, on the left, there is a good general view of the lake and vale; but the mo∫t picture∫que point is from an eminence behind DALEHEAD hou∫e. The lake terminates ∫weetly with a pyramidal rock wooded to the top, and oppo∫ite to it, a ∫ilver grey rock, hanging over its ba∫e towards the lake, has a fine effect. The road after this leads through the narrow green vale of AGBERTHWAITE, divided into ∫mall inclo∫ures, peopled with a few  cots, and notably terminated by the romantic ca∫tle-like rock of St. JOHN. Below, the vale contracts into a deep craggy dell, through which LEATHES WATER rolls it∫elf till it joins the GRETA at NEW-BRIDGE, under the foot of THRELKELD-FELL, a gloomy mountain of dark dun rocks, that ∫huts up the view of the ∫weet ∫preading vale of St. JOHN. The road winds to the left along THWAITE-BRIDGE, and a∫cends NADDLE-FELL, by CAWSEYWAY-FOOT, to CASTLE-RIGG. At the turn of the hill, and within two miles of KESWICK, you come at once in ∫ight of the glorious vale, with all its noble environs, and wonderfully inchanting ∫cenes, which when Mr. GREY beheld, had almo∫t determined him to return to KESWICK, and repeat his tour. "I left KESWICK, ∫ays he, and took the AMBLESIDE road, in a gloomy morning, and about two miles from the town, mounted an eminence, called CASTLE-RIGG, and the ∫un breaking out, di∫covered the mo∫t enchanting view, I have yet ∫een, of the whole valley behind me, the two lakes, the rivers, the  mountains, all in their glory; ∫o that I had almo∫t a mind to have gone back again." This is certainly a mo∫t ravi∫hing morning view of the bird's-eye kind; a circuit of twenty miles; two lakes, DERWENT, and BA∫ENTHWAITE, the river ∫erpentizing between; the town of KESWICK, and church of CRO∫THWAITE, in the centre points; an exten∫ive fertile plain; all the ∫urrounding mountains that inclo∫e this delicious ∫pot, ∫een in all their greatne∫s, a∫toni∫h, ∫urpri∫e, and delight. The druid temple, mentioned by HUTCHINSON, and delineated in PENNANT's tour, lies about half a mile to the right; but will be more conveniently ∫een from the PENRITH road. De∫cend to This ∫mall neat town is at pre∫ent renowned for nothing ∫o much as the lake it ∫tands near, and is ∫ometimes called by its name, the lake of KESWICK, but more properly the lake of DERWENT; and I am inclined to think, and hope to make it appear,  that the ancient name of KESWICK, is the DERWENT TOWN, or the town of DERWENT WATER. But fir∫t of the lake it∫elf. The whole extent of the lake is about three miles, from north to ∫outh; the form is irregular; its greate∫t breadth exceeds not a mile and a half. The cour∫e of viewing this fairy enchanting lake, is in the boat, and from the banks. Mr. GRAY viewed it from the banks only; and Mr. MASON, after trying both, prefers Mr. GRAY's choice; and where the plea∫ure of rowing and ∫ailing are out of the que∫tion; it will in general be found the be∫t, on account of the near ground, which the boat does not furni∫h; yet every dimen∫ion of the lake appears more extended from its bo∫om, than from its banks, or other elevated ∫tation. I ∫hall therefore point out the favourite ∫tations round the lake, that have often been verified. STATION I. COCKSHUT-HILL is remarkable for a general view, it is covered with a motly mixture of young wood, has an ea∫y a∫cent to the top, and from it the lake appears in great beauty. On the floor  of a ∫pacious ampitheatre, of the mo∫t picture∫que mountains imaginable, an elegant ∫heet of water is ∫pread out before you, ∫hining like a mirror, and tran∫parent as chry∫tal; variegated with i∫lands, that ri∫e in the mo∫t plea∫ing forms above the watery plane, dre∫∫ed in wood, or clothed with ∫ofte∫t verdure, the water ∫hining round them. The effects all around are amazingly great; but no words can de∫cribe the ∫urpri∫ing plea∫ure of this ∫cene, in a fine day, when the ∫un plays upon the bo∫om of the lake, and the ∫urrounding mountains are illuminated by his refulgent rays, and their rocky broken ∫ummits reflected reflected inverted by the chry∫tal ∫urface of the water. STATION II. The next celebrated ∫tation, is at a ∫mall di∫tance. CROW-PARK, till of late a grove of oaks of immemorial growth, who∫e fall the bard of LOWES WATER, bemoans in humble plaintive numbers thus, This now ∫hadele∫s pa∫ture, is a gentle eminence not too high, on the very margin of the lake, which it commands in all its extent, and looks full into the craggy pa∫s of BORROWDALE. Of this ∫tation Mr. GRAY ∫peaks, "October 4th, I walked to CROW-PARK, now a rough pa∫ture, once a glade of ancient oaks, who∫e large roots ∫till remain in the ground, but nothing has ∫prung from them. If one ∫ingle tree had remained this would have been an unparalleled ∫pot; and SMITH judged right when he took his print of the lake from hence, for it is a gentle eminence, not too high, on the very margin of the water, and commands it from end to end, looking full into the gorge of BORROWDALE, I prefer it even to COCKSHUT-HILL, which lies be∫ide it, and to which I walked in the afternoon; it is covered with young trees, both ∫own and planted, oak, ∫pruce, ∫cotch fir, &c, all of which thrive wonderfully. There is an ea∫y a∫cent to the top, and the view far preferable  to that on CASTLE-HILL, becau∫e this is lower and nearer the lake; for I find all points that are much elevated, ∫poil the beauty of the valley, and make its parts, which are not large, look poor and diminutive." STATION III. A third ∫tation, on this ∫ide, will be found by keeping along the line of ∫hore, till STABLE-HILLS be on the right, and WALLOW-CRAG directly over you on the left; then without the gate, on the edge of the common, ob∫erve two huge fragments of ferruginous coloured rock, pitched into the ∫ide of the mountain in their de∫cent. Here all that is great and plea∫ing on the lake, all that is grand and ∫ublime in the environs, lie in a beautiful order, and natural di∫po∫ition. Looking down upon the lake, the four large i∫lands appear di∫tinctly over the penin∫ula of STABLE-HILLS; the LORD'S ISLAND richly dre∫∫ed in wood; a little to the left, VICAR'S ISLE ri∫es in a beautiful form, and a circular i∫le. RAMPS-HOLME, is catched in the line betwixt that and ST. HERBERT'S ISLAND, which traver∫es the lake in an oblique direction, and  has a fine effect. The∫e are the four mo∫t con∫iderable i∫lands on the lake. Under FOE-PARK, a round hill completely clothed in wood, two ∫mall i∫les interrupt the line of ∫hore, and charm the eye in the pa∫∫age from the VICAR'S ISLE to RAMPS-HOLME. Another i∫let above ST. HERBERT'S ISLAND, has a ∫imilar effect. All idea of river or outlet is here excluded; but over a neck of undulated land, finely ∫cattered with trees, di∫tant water is ju∫t ∫een behind the LORD'S ISLAND. The white church of CROSTHWAITE is ∫een under SKIDDAW towering to the ∫ky, the ∫tronge∫t po∫∫ible back-ground. The oppo∫ite ∫hore is bounded by a range of hills, down to the entrance of NEWLAND vale, where CAWSEY-PIKE and THORNTHWAITE ri∫e in Alpine pride, outdone only by their ∫upreme lord, SKIDDAW. Their ∫kirts de∫cend in gentle ∫lopes, and end in cultivated grounds. The whole of the we∫tern coa∫t is beautiful beyond what words can expre∫s, and the north end exhibits what is mo∫t gentle and plea∫ing in land∫cape. The ∫outhern extremity of the lake, is a violent contra∫t to all this: FALCON-CRAG, an immen∫e rock, hangs over your head, and upwards a fore∫t  of broken pointed rocks in a ∫emicircular ∫weep, towering inward, form the mo∫t horrid ampitheatre that ever eye beheld, in all the wild forms of convul∫ed nature. The immediate border of the lake, is a ∫weet variegated ∫hore of meadow and pa∫ture, up to the foot of the rocks. Over a border of hedge-row trees, LOWDORE-HOUSE is ∫een under HALLOW-STONE-CRAG, a ∫loping rock who∫e back is covered with ∫oft vegetation; beyond that, the awful craggy rocks that conceal the pa∫s into BORROWDALE, and at their feet a ∫tripe of verdant meadows, through which the DERWENT ∫erpentizes to the lake in ∫ilence. The road is along BARROWSIDE, on the margin of the lake, open and narrow, yet ∫afe. It ∫oon enters a glade, through which the lake is ∫weetly ∫een by turns. In approaching the ruins of GOWDAR-CRAG, which hangs towering forward, the mind recoils at the ∫ight of huge fragments of crags, piled up on both ∫ides, through a thicket of rocks and wood; but there is nothing of the danger remaining that Mr. GRAY apprehended here; the road being  carefully kep open. Proceed by the bridge of one arch over PARK-GILL, and another over BARROW-BECK; here GOWDAR-CRAG pre∫ents it∫elf in all its terrible maje∫ty of rock, trimmed with trees that hang from its numerous fi∫∫ures. Above this, a towering grey rock ri∫es maje∫tically rude, and near it SHUTTENOER, a ∫piral rock, not le∫s in height, and hanging more forward over its ba∫e. Betwixt an awful cha∫m is formed, through which the waters of WATENLATH are hurled; this is the niagra of the lake, the renowned cataract of LOWDORE. To ∫ee this, a∫cend to an opening in the grove, directly above the mill. It is the mi∫fortune of this celebrated water-fall, to fail entirely in a dry ∫ea∫on. The wonderful ∫cenes continue to the gorge of BORROWDALE, and higher; CASTLE-CRAG, in the centre of the ampitheatre, threatens to block up the pa∫s it once defended. The village of GRANGE is under it, celebrated as well for its ho∫pitality to Mr. GRAY, as for its ∫weet romantic ∫ite; and to affirm that all Mr. GRAY ∫ays of the young farmer at GRANGE, is ∫ŧrictly applicable to the inhabitants of the∫e mountainous  regions in general, is but common ju∫tice done to the memory of repeated favours. On the ∫ummit of CASTLE-CRAG, are the remains of a fort; and much free∫tone, both red and white, has been quarried out of the ruins. Ve∫∫els, large and ∫mall, are cut in the rock. A lead pan with an iron bow was lately taken up; la∫t year, two ma∫∫es of ∫melted iron were found in the ruins, and probably were from the bloomery at the foot of the STAKE in BORROWDALE. It is probably of Roman original, to guard the pa∫s, and ∫ecure the trea∫ure they were acquainted with, contained in the bo∫om of the∫e mountains. The Saxons, and after them the FURNE∫ monks, maintained this fort for the ∫ame purpo∫e. All BORROWDALE, and the rectory of CROSTHWAITE, were given to the monks of FURNE∫, probably by one of the DERWENT family, and  ADAM DE DERWENT-WATER, gave them free ingre∫s, and egre∫s through all his lands. The GRANGE was the place where they laid up their grain and tithe, and al∫o the ∫alt they made at the ∫alt-spring,  where are ∫till ∫ome ve∫tiges of the works remaining below GRANGE. STATION IV. From the top of CASTLE-ROCK or crag, in BORROWDALE, there is a mo∫t a∫toni∫hing view of the lake and vale of KESWICK, ∫pread out to the north in the mo∫t picture∫que manner. From the pa∫s of BORROWDALE, every bend of the river, till it joins the lake, is di∫tinctly ∫een; the lake it∫elf, ∫potted with i∫lands; the mo∫t extraordinary line of ∫hore, varied with all the ∫urpri∫ing accompanyments of rocks and woods; the village of GRANGE at the foot of the rock, and the white hou∫es of KESWICK, with CROSTHWAITE church at the lower end of the lake; behind the∫e much cultivation, with a beautiful mixture of villages, hou∫es, cots, and farms, round the ∫kirts of SKIDDAW, which ri∫es in the grande∫t manner, from a verdant ba∫e, and clo∫es this ∫cene in the noble∫ŧ ∫tile of nature's true ∫ublime. The area of the ca∫tellum from ea∫t to we∫t, is about 70 yards; from ∫outh to north about 40 yards. From the ∫ummit of this rock the views are ∫o ∫ingularly great and plea∫ing, that they ought  never to be omitted. The a∫cent is by one of the narrow paths cut in the ∫ide of the mountain, for the de∫cent of the ∫late, that is quarried on its top. The∫e quarries will, in a ∫hort time, ∫ink it any feet below its pre∫ent height, and de∫troy the la∫t ve∫tige of its ancient importance. The view to the north is already de∫cribed; all the vale of KESWICK, the lake, its environs, all di∫played in the fine∫t order, completely inclo∫ed with mountains, that ∫well with di∫tance, and con∫itute an excellent picture, plea∫ing and ∫ublime. To the ∫outh, the view is in BORROWDALE. The river is ∫een winding from the lake upward, through the rugged pa∫s, to where it divides and embraces a triangular vale, completely cut into inclo∫ures of meadow, enamelled with ∫ofte∫t verdure, and fields waving with fruitful crops, the ample return to the laudable toil of the peaceful inhabitants. This truly ∫ecreted ∫pot is completely ∫urrounded by the mo∫t horrid, romantic mountains in this region of wonders; and whoever  omits this COUP D'OEILE, hath ∫een nothing equal to it among∫t the marvelous ∫cenes. The views here taken in the gla∫s, in ∫un ∫hine, are amazingly fine. This picture is rever∫ed from the ∫ummit of LAT-RIGG. Mr. GRAY was ∫o much intimidated with the accounts of BORROWDALE, that he proceeded no further then GRANGE; but no ∫uch difficulties are now to met with; the road into BORROWDALE is improved ∫ince his time, at lea∫t as far as is nece∫∫ary for any one to proceed to ∫ee what is curious. The road ∫erpentizes through the pa∫s above GRANGE, and, though upon the edge of a precipice that hangs over the river, it is ∫afe by day. This river brings no mixture of mud from the mountains of naked rock, and runs in a channel of ∫late and granite, clear as cry∫tal. The water of all the lakes in the∫e parts is clear, but the DERWENT only is pellucid; the ∫malle∫t pebble is ∫een at any depth as in the open air. The rocky ∫cenes in BORROWDALE are mo∫t fanta∫tic, the entrance rugged. One rock elbows out, and turns the road directly again∫t another. BOWDAR-STONE, on the right, in the very pa∫s, a mountain of it∫elf, the road winds round its ba∫e. Here rock riots over rock, and mountain inter∫ecting mountain, form one grand ∫emicircular ∫weep of broken pointed crags, and rocky mountains, nodding to each other in gloomy maje∫ty; woods re∫t on their ∫teep ∫ides, trees grow from rocks, and rocks appear like trees. Here the DERWENT, rapid as the RHONE, rolls his cry∫tal ∫treams through all the labyrinth of embattled rocks. The ∫cenes here are ∫o ∫ublimely terrible, the a∫∫emblage of magnificent objects ∫o ∫tupendously great, and the arrangement ∫o extraordinary, as mu∫t excite the mo∫t ∫en∫ible feelings of wonder, a∫tonishment, and ∫urpri∫e, and at once impre∫s the mind with reverential awe and admiration. The mo∫t gigantic mountains that form the outline of this tremendous land∫cape, and inclo∫e BORROWDALE, are EAGLE-CRAG, GLARAMARA, BULL-CRAG, and SERJEANT-CRAG.  On the front of the fir∫t, the bird of JOVE has his annual ne∫t, which the dale∫men are careful to rob, not without hazard to the a∫∫ailant, who is let down from the ∫ummit of this dreadful rock by a rope of twenty fathoms, or more, and is obliged to de∫cend him∫elf from the attacks of the parent birds in the de∫cent. The deva∫tation made on the fold, in the breeding ∫ea∫on, by one eyrie, is computed at a lamb a day, be∫ides the carnage made on the ferÆ naturâ. GLARAMARA is a mountain of perpendicular naked rock, immen∫e in height, and much broken; it appears in the we∫tern canton, and outline of the picture. BULL-CRAG, and SERJEANT-CRAG are in the centre; their rugged ∫ides concealed with hanging woods. The road continues good to ROSTHWAITE, the fir∫t village in this romantic region. Here the roads divide; that on the right leads to the wad-mines, and to RAVENGLA∫, that on the left to HAWKSHEAD. Amid∫t the∫e tremendous ∫cenes of rocks and mountains, there is a peculiar circum∫tance of con∫olation to the traveller, that di∫tingui∫hes  this from other mountainous tracts, where the hills are divided by bogs and mo∫∫es, through which it is often difficult to pick the way, which is, that the mo∫∫es here, where any be, are on the tops of the mountains, and the pa∫∫age over or round them is never very difficult. The inhabitants of the dales are ∫erved with fewel from the ∫ummits of the mountains, and the manner of procuring it is very ∫ingular: A man carries on his back a ∫ledge to the top of the mountain, and conducts it down the mo∫t awful de∫cents, placing him∫elf before it to prevent its running amain. A narrow furrow is cut in the mountain's ∫ide which ∫erves for a road to conduct the ∫ledge, and pitch the conductors heel in. A ∫ledge holds one half of what a hor∫e can draw. The mountains here are ∫eparated by wooded glens, verdant dells, and fertile vales, which form a plea∫ing contra∫t, and relieve the imagination with delightful ideas, that the inhabitants of the∫e rude regions, are far removed from the want of nece∫∫aries of life for them∫elves, their herds and flocks, during the exclu∫ion months from the re∫ŧ of the  community, by winter ∫nows. About ROSTHWAITE, in the centre of the dale, fields wave with crops, and meadows are enamelled with flowery gra∫s; the little delightful EDEN is marked with every degree of indu∫try by the laborious inhabitants, who partake nothing of the ferocity of the country they live in; for they are ho∫pitable, civil, and communicative, and readily and chearfully give a∫∫i∫tance to ∫trangers who vi∫it their realms. On mi∫∫ing the tract I was directed to ob∫erve, I have been ∫urpri∫ed by the dalelander, from the top of a rock, waving me back and offering me a ∫afe conduct through ll the difficult parts, who blu∫hed at the offer of a reward. Such is the power of virtue on the minds of tho∫e that are lea∫t acquainted with ∫ociety. The ∫hepherds only are conver∫ant in the traditional annals of the mountains, and with all the ∫ecrets of the my∫terious reign of chaos, and old night; and they only can give proper information; for others who live within the ∫hadow of the∫e mountains, are ignorant of their names. Return to KESWICK by GRANGE, and if the ∫un ∫hines in the evening, the di∫play of the rock on the oppo∫ite ∫hore, from CASTLE-ROCK to WALLOW-CRAG, in ∫uch high colouring, is amazingly grand. The parts are the ∫ame as in the morning ride, the di∫po∫itions entirely new. The cry∫tal ∫urface of the lake, reflecting the waving woods and rocks, backed by the fine∫t arrangement of lofty mountains, inter∫ectinf and ri∫ing above each other in great variety of forms, are ∫cenes not to be equalled el∫ewhere. The whole ride down the we∫tern ∫ide is plea∫ant; the road is but indifferent. Whoever chu∫es an Alpine ride, of a very extraordinary nature, may return through BORROWDALE to AMBLESIDE, or HAWKSHEAD: A guide will be nece∫∫ary from ROSTHWAITE over the STAKE, a mountain ∫o called, to LANGDALE chapel. The ride is the wilde∫t that an be imagined, for the ∫pace of eight miles. Above the cultivated tract the dale narrows, but the ∫kirts of the mountains are covered with ∫weete∫t verdure, and have once waved with aged wood; many large roots ∫till remain, with ∫ome  ∫cattered trees. Ju∫t where the road begins to a∫cend the ∫teep mountain, called the STAKE of BORROWDALE, are ∫aid to be the remains of a bloomery, clo∫e by the water-fall on the left; but no tradition relates at what time it was la∫t worked. This I could never verify from any vi∫ible remains. The mineral was found in the mountains, and the wood u∫ed in ∫melting had covered their ∫teep ∫ides. The ma∫∫es of iron found on CASTLE-CRAG, were probably ∫melted here. Cataracts and water-falls abound on all ∫ides; a ∫ucce∫∫ion of water-falls will meet you in the a∫cent up the STAKE, and others will accompany you down the mo∫t dreadful de∫cent into LANGDALE: The ∫cenes on the BORROWDALE ∫ide are in part ∫ylvan and pa∫toral; on the ∫ide of LANGDALE entirely rocky. The STAKE is a miniature of a very bad Alpine road acro∫s a mountain ju∫t not perpendicular, and about five miles over. The road makes many traver∫es ∫o clo∫e that at every flexure it ∫eems almo∫t to return into it∫elf, and ∫uch as are advancing in different traver∫es, ∫eem to go different ways, or to meet each other. In de∫cending the STAKE on the LANGDALE ∫ide, a cataract  accompanies you on the left, with all the horrors of a precipice. LANGDALE-PIKE, called PIKE A STICKLE, and STEEL-PIKE, is an inacce∫∫ible pyramidal rock, that commands the whole. Here nature ∫eems to have di∫charged all the u∫ele∫s load of matter and rock, when form was impre∫∫ed on chaos. PAVEY-ARK is a hanging rock, 600 feet in height, and under it STICKLE-TARN, a large ba∫on of water, formed in the bo∫om of the rock, that pours down in a cataract at MILL-BECK; below this WHITEGILL-CRAG opens to the centre a dreadful yawning fi∫∫ure. Below LANGDALE chapel, the vale becomes more plea∫ing, the road good to AMBLESIDE or HAWKSHEAD, by SKELWITH-BRIDGE. Mr. GRAY was much plea∫ed with an evening view under CROW-PARK. --"In the evening I walked alone down to the lake, by the ∫ide of CROW-PARK, after ∫un-∫et, and ∫aw the ∫olemn colouring of the night draw on, the la∫t gleam of ∫un-∫hine fading away on the hill tops, the deep ∫erene of the waters, and the long ∫hadows of the mountains thrown acro∫s them, till they nearly touched the hithermo∫t ∫hore. At a di∫tance  were heard the murmurs of many water-falls not audible in the day time; I wi∫hed for the moon, but ∫he was dark to me and ∫ilent, STATION V. This view is ∫een to much greater advantage from the ∫ide of SWINSIDE, a little before ∫un∫et, where both the lakes are in full view, with the whole extent of rocky ∫hore, on the upper lake, and flexures of the lower lake, with the whole extent of the vale, when the la∫t beams of the ∫un re∫t on the purple ∫ummit of SKIDDAW, and the deep ∫hade of WYTHOP's wooded brows is ∫tretched over the lake, the effect is amazingly great. STATION VI. From SWINSIDE, continue the walk by FOE-PARK. This is a ∫weet evening walk, and had the ∫un ∫hone out, Mr. GRAY would have perceived his mi∫take in being here in the morning. "October 5th, I walked through the meadows and corn fields to the DERWENT, and cro∫∫ing it, went up HOW-HILL, it looks along BA∫ENTHWAITE WATER, and ∫ees at the ∫ame  time the cour∫e of the river, and part of the upper lake, with a full view of SKIDDAW: Then I took my way through PORTINGSCALE village to the park (FOE-PARK), a hill ∫o called, covered entirely with wood; it is all a ma∫s of crumbling ∫late; pa∫∫ed round its foot between the trees and the edge of the water, and came to a penin∫ula, that juts out into the lake, and looks along it both ways; in front ri∫es WALLOW-CRAG, and CASTLE-HILL, the town, the road to PENRITH, SKIDDAW, and SADDLE-BACK. -- After dinner walked up PENRITH, road, &c." STATION VII. Another ∫elect ∫tation for a morning view is on LAT-RIGG, a ∫oft green hill, that interpo∫es between the town and SKIDDAW. The a∫cent is by MONKS-HALL, leaving ORMATHWAITE on the left; and following the mountain road about due ea∫t, till you approach the gate in the ∫tone-wall inclo∫ure; then ∫lant the hill to the right, looking towards KESWICK, till you gain the brow of the hill, which exhibits a fine terras of verdant turf, ∫mooth as velvet. Below you rolls the GREETA, and in its cour∫e, vi∫its the town before it joins the  DERWENT, where it i∫∫ues from the lake, and then their united ∫treams are ∫een meandering through the vale, till they are met by the floods of BA∫ENTHWAITE, under the verdant ∫kirts of WYTHOP brows. The pro∫pect to the ∫outh is the rever∫e of that from CASTLE-CRAG. The view is full into the rocky jaws of BORROWDALE, through which the DERWENT is ∫een pouring his cry∫tal ∫tream, that winding through ∫ome verdant meadows which ∫kirt the rocky coa∫t, joins the lake at LOWDORE. The lake it∫elf is ∫een in its full extent, embracing on all ∫ides variety of ∫hore, its bo∫om ∫potted with diver∫ity of i∫lands. The CASTLE-CRAG in BORROWDALE, ∫tands fir∫t of all the fore∫t of embattled rocks, who∫e forked heads reared to the ∫ky, ∫hine in the ∫un like ∫pears of burni∫hed ∫teel; and in the rear LANGDALE-PIKE, advancing to the clouds his cone-like head, overlooks them all. What charms the eye in wandering over the vale, is that not one ∫treight line offends; the roads all ∫erpentize round the mountains, and the hedges wave with the inclo∫ures. All are thrown into ∫ome path of beauty, or line of nature. To de∫cribe every picture∫que view, that this region of land∫cape pre∫ents would be endle∫s labour; and did language furni∫h expre∫∫ion to convey ideas of the innumerable changes, in the many grand con∫tituent objects in the∫e magnificent ∫cenes, the imagination would be fatigued with the detail, and de∫cription weakened by redundancy. It is more plea∫ing to ∫peculative curio∫ity to play upon, what it wi∫hes not to be informed of, the difference among ∫uch ∫cenes as approach the neare∫t in likene∫s, and the agreement between ∫uch as appear mo∫t di∫cordant; this is the ∫port of fancy, or the re∫ult of ta∫te and judgement, from ∫elf-information, and has the greate∫t effect on the mind. The province of the Guide is to point out the ∫tation, and leave to the company the enjoyment of reflection, and plea∫ures of the imagination. Return to the gate, and enter the inclo∫ure; turn as ∫oon as you can to the right, having the wall at ∫ome di∫tance, till you arrive at the brink of a green precipice; there you will be entertained with the noi∫e of the GREETA, roaring through a craggy  channel with rapid cour∫e, that in the run of two miles exhibits an uncommon appearence, forming twelve or more of the fine∫t bends and ∫erpentine curves that ever fancy pencilled. The point for viewing this uncommon ∫cene, is directly over the Alpine bridge, which hangs gracefully over the river. The town of KESWICK appears no where to greater advantage than from this ∫tation. HELVELLYN, in front, overlooks a va∫t range of varied hills, who∫e rocky ∫ides are rent with many fi∫∫ures, the paths of ∫o many roaring rills and cataracts, that echo through the vales, and ∫well the general torment. To the ea∫t CRO∫-FELL is di∫cerned, like a cloud of blue mi∫t, hanging over the horizon. In the middle ∫pace MELL-FELL, a green pyramidal hill, is a ∫ingular figure. The eye wandering over CASTLE-RIGG, will di∫cover the druid-temple on the ∫outhern ∫ide of the PENRITH road. Return to the path that leads down the ridge of the hill to the ea∫t; arrive at a gate that opens into a cro∫s road; de∫cend to the right, along the precipitous bank of a brawling brook, GLENDERATERRA-BECK, that is heard tumbling from the mountain, concealed by woods that  hang on the ∫teep banks; in the cour∫e of the de∫cent, remark THRESKIELD-PIKE, browned with ∫torms, and rent by a dreadful wedge-like rock, that tends to the centre. There are many pa∫toral cots and rural ∫eats, ∫cattered round the cultivated ∫kirts of the mountains of SKIDDAW, and SADDLE-BACK, on this ∫ide ∫weetly placed and picture∫que. The northern ∫ide is le∫s ho∫pitable, being more precipitous, and much concealed in ∫hade. From the bridge the road leads to THRESKIELD, and falls into the PENRITH road four miles from KESWICK. The la∫t brook GLENDERATERRA, divides SKIDDAW from SADDLE-BACK, called here THRESKIELD-FELL. From the front of Mr. WREN's hou∫e, the eye will be delighted with the vale of St. JOHN, ∫weetly ∫pread out in rural beauty between two ridges of hills; LOTHWAITE and NADDLE-FELLS, which in appearance lock ju∫t behind the CASTLE-ROCKS, the∫e have the ∫hew of magnificent ruins, in the centre point of view. A river is ∫een on both ∫ides of the vale, lengthening its cour∫e in meanders, till it meets THRESKIELD WATER or GLENDERAMACKIN-BECK at NEW-BRIDGE, where it takes the name of GREETA. This picture  is improved at the brow of the hill, on the we∫tern ∫ide of the hou∫e. Here the GREETA is ∫een from the bridge, running under the hill where you ∫tand, and on the right, comes forth in a fine ∫tream in a deep channel, between ∫teep wooded banks. In a field on the left, near the ∫econd mile-po∫t, ∫tands con∫picuous the wide circus of rude ∫tones, the awful remains of the barbarous ∫uper∫tition of ancient times. Mr. PENNANT has an excellent drawing of the∫e druidical remains. STATION VIII.  Another ∫tation remains, and which ought to be an evening one, in the vicarage garden. Mr. GRAY took it in his gla∫s from the hor∫ing-∫tone, and ∫peaks of it thus: "From hence I got to the par∫onage a little before ∫un-∫et and, ∫aw in my gla∫s a picture, that if I could tran∫mit to you and fix in all the ∫oftne∫s of its living colours, would fairly ∫ell for a thou∫and pounds. This is the ∫weete∫t ∫cene I can yet di∫cover in point of pa∫toral beauty; the re∫t are in a ∫ublimer ∫tile." The leading parts of this picture are, over a rich cultivated fore-ground, the town of KESWICK ∫een under a hill, divided by gra∫s inclo∫ures, its ∫ummit crowned with wood; more to the ea∫t, CASTLE-RIGG ∫weetly laid out, and over it ∫weeps in curves the road to AMBLESIDE; behind that, the range of va∫t mountains de∫cending from HELVELLYN. On the we∫tern ∫ide, the chaos of mountains heaped on mountains, that ∫ecrete the vale of NEWLAND; over the∫e CAWSET-PIKE pre∫ides. Leaving the∫e the eye meets a well wooded hill on the margin of the lake, ∫hining in all the beauties of foliage, ∫et of with all the advantage of form. A noble expan∫e of water, broke ju∫t in the centre by a large i∫land dre∫∫ed in wood, another cultivated and fringed with trees, and a third with a hut upon it, ∫tript of its late ornamental trees, by the unfeeling hand of avarice. On the ea∫tern ∫ide, a bold ∫hore, ∫teep and wooded to the water's edge; above the∫e, ri∫e daring rocks in every horrid ∫hape. A ∫trange mixture of wood and rocks ∫ucceeds to the ∫outhern extremity of the lake, where the grand pyramidal CASTLE-CRAG commands the whole:  The we∫tern ∫hore is indented with wooded promontories down to FOE-PARK, the hill fir∫t de∫cribed on the lower margin of the lake. The mountains all round ri∫e immediately from the lake, but tho∫e that form the outline to the ∫outh, are much broken and picture∫que. The∫e are the parts of the ∫cene Mr. GRAY ∫ays is the ∫weete∫t he ever ∫aw, in point of pa∫toral beauty. But whoever takes this view from ORMTHWAITE, in a field on the we∫tern ∫ide of the hou∫e, will be convinced of Mr. GRAY's lo∫s in want of information. The very ∫pot he ∫tood upon is in the center of the fore-ground, and is a principal object in the pa∫toral part of the picture he prai∫es ∫o highly. Sailing round the lake opens a new field of land∫cape. Mr. GRAY neglected it, and Mr. MASON thinks he judged well. Me∫∫rs. YOUNG, HUTCHINSON, and PENNANT tried it, and admired it. Dr. BROWN prefers ∫ailing, and landing on every promontory, and anchoring in every bay. The tran∫parent beauty of the lake is only ∫een in the boats and it is very ∫urpri∫ing. The botton  re∫embles a mo∫aic pavement of party coloured ∫tone, the fragments of ∫par at the depth of ∫even yards, ∫hine like diamonds, or glitter in diver∫ity of colour; and ∫uch is the purity of the lake, that no mud or ooze defiles its bottom. Mr. PENNANT navigated the lake, and his de∫cription is more compre∫∫ed then any other, and gives a di∫tinct idea of appearance from it. "The view on every ∫ide are very different: Here all the po∫∫ible variety of Alpine ∫cenery is exhibited, with all the horror of precipice, broken crag, overhanging rock, or in∫ulated pyramidal hills, contra∫ted with others who∫e ∫mooth and verdant ∫ides, ∫welling into immen∫e aerial heights, at once plea∫e, and ∫urpri∫e the eye. "The two extremities of the lake afford mo∫t di∫chordant pro∫pects: The ∫outhern is a compo∫ition of all that is horrible; an immen∫e cha∫m opens, who∫e entrance is divided by a rude conic hill, once topt with a ca∫tle, the habitation of the tyrant of the rocks; beyond, a ∫eries of broken mountainous  crags, now patched with ∫now, ∫oar one above the other, over∫hadowing the dark winding deep of BORROWDALE. In the rece∫∫es are lodged variety of minerals, &c. "But the oppo∫ite, or northern view, is in all re∫pects a ∫trong and beautiful contra∫t: SKIDDAW ∫hews its va∫t ba∫e, and bounding all that part of the vale, ri∫es gently to a height that ∫inks the neighbouring hills; opens a plea∫ing front, ∫mooth and verdant, ∫miling over the country like a gentle generous lord, while the fells of BORROWDALE frown on it like a hardened tyrant. "Each boundary of the lake ∫eems to take part with the extremities, and emulates their appearance: The ∫outhern varies in rocks of different forms, from the tremendous precipice of LADY'S-LEAF, the broken front of FALCON'S-NEST, to the more di∫tant concave curvature of LOWDORE, an extent of precipitous rock, with trees variegating from their numerous fi∫∫ures, and the foam of the cataract precipitating amid∫t. "The entrance into BORROWDALE divides the ∫cene, and the northern ∫ide alters into milder forms; a ∫alt-∫pring, once the property of the monks of FURNE∫, trickles along the ∫hore; hills (the re∫ort of ∫hepherds) with downy fronts, and lofty ∫ummits, with wood clothing their ba∫es to the water's edge. "Not far from hence the environs appear to the navigator of the lake, to the greate∫t advantage, for on every ∫ide mountains clo∫e the pro∫pect, and form an ampitheatre almo∫t matchle∫s. "The i∫les that decorate this water are finely di∫po∫ed, and very di∫tinct; ri∫e with gentle and regular curvatures above the ∫urface, con∫i∫t of verdant turf, or are planted with various trees. The principal is the LORD'S ISLAND, above five acres, where the RATCLIFF family had ∫ome time its re∫idence; and from this lake took the title of DERWENT WATER. "St. HERBERT'S ISLE was noted for the re∫idence of that ∫aint, the bo∫om friend of  St. CUTHBERT, who wi∫hed, and obtained his de∫ire of departing this life on the ∫ame day, hour, and minute, with that holy man. "The water of DERWENT WATER, is ∫ubject to violent agitations, and often without any apparent cau∫e, as was the ca∫e this day; the weather was calm, yet the waves ran a great height, and the boat was to∫∫ed violently with what is called a bottom wind." Dr. BROWN recommends as the complement of the tour of this lake, "a walk by ∫till moon light (at this time the di∫tant water-falls are heard in all their variety of ∫ound) among the∫e enchanting dales, opens a ∫cene of ∫uch delicate beauty, repo∫e, and ∫olemnity, as exceeds all de∫cription." An expedition of this kind depends upon the choice of time in making the tour, it is better a little before, then after the full moon. If the evening be ∫till, the voice of water-falls are re-echoed from every rock and cavern, in all their beauty of ∫ound. The ∫etting ∫un tips the mountain's tops with golden rays; and the ri∫ing moon gilds  all with her ∫ilver beams. The ∫urface of the lake, that in the day appears blue as gla∫s, or clear as cry∫tal; reflecting the azure ∫ky, the deep green woods, or ∫ilver coloured rocks, is now a ∫able mirror, ∫tudded with the reflected gems of the ∫tarry heavens; a plain on which are pencilled by the ∫ilver moon, the faint outlines and ∫hadows of the hills, behind which ∫he labours; all is in faint light, grave ∫hade, or ∫olemn darkne∫s, that increa∫es with ∫olemn horror the whole ∫cene, that ∫trikes the mind of the beholder with reverential awe and plea∫ing melancholy. -- An effect that nature can only produce, and art but humbly imitate. The characteri∫tic of this lake is, that it retains its form viewed from any point and, never a∫∫umes the appearance of a river: This is owing to the proportion of its dementions. The fi∫h here are trout, perch, pike, and eel. Having ∫een the glory the KESWICK, the beauties of the lake, and wonders of the environs, there remains a plea∫ant ride to OUSEBRIDGE,  and vi∫it the lake of BA∫ENTHWAITE WATER. Me∫∫rs. GRAY and PENNANT took the ride, but did not ∫ee the beauties of the lake, either for want of time or proper information. Mr. PENNANT ∫ays, "Pa∫s along the vale of KESWICK, and keep above BA∫ENTHWAITE WATER, at a ∫mall cultivated di∫tance from it: This lake is a fine expan∫e of four miles in length, bounded on one ∫ide by high hills, wooded in many places to their bottoms; on the other ∫ide, by fields and the ∫kirts of SKIDDAW. "From Mr. SPEDDING'S of ARMATHWAITE, at the low extremity of the lake, you have a fine view of the whole." Mr. GRAY allowed him∫elf more time for particulars. "October 6th, went in a chai∫e, eight miles, along the ea∫t ∫ide of BA∫ENTHWAITE WATER to OUSE-BRIDGE, pronounced EWS-BRIDGE, it runs directly along the foot of SKIDDAW. Oppo∫ite to WIDHOPE-BROWS, clothed to the top with wood, a very beautiful view opens down to the lake, which is narrower and longer than that of KESWICK, le∫s broken into bays, and without i∫lands; at the foot of it,a few  paces from the brink, gently ∫loping upwards, ∫tands ARMATHWAITE, in a thick grove of Scotch firs, commanding a noble view directly up the lake. At a ∫mall di∫tance behind this, a ridge of cultivated hills, on which, according to the KESWICK proverb, the ∫un always ∫hines; the inhabitants here, on the contrary, call the vale of DERWENT WATER, the DEVIL's CHAMBER-POT, and pronounce the name of SKIDDAW-FELL, which terminates here, with a ∫ort of terror and aver∫ion. ARMATHWAITE-HOUSE is a modern fabric, not large, and built of dark red ∫ŧone." The ∫ingular beauties of this lake remain yet unnoticed, viz. the grand ∫inuo∫ity of three noble bays. STATION I. From ARMATHWAITE the lower bay is in full di∫play, a fine expan∫e of water, ∫preading it∫elf both ways behind a circular penin∫ula, CASTLE-HOW, that ∫wells in the middle, and is crowned with wood. In former times it has been ∫urrounded by water, from the lake on one ∫ide, and the a∫∫i∫tance of a brook that de∫cends  from EMBLETON, on the other. The acce∫∫ible parts have been defended by trenches, one above another. The upper part has been occupied with building, the ve∫tiges of ruins are vi∫ible; and, like other ∫uch places in this region, were probably occupied by the fir∫t inhabitants, as places of difficult acce∫s, and of ea∫y defence. From the bottom of the bay, ∫ome waving inclo∫ures ri∫e to the ∫ide of a green hill, and ∫ome ∫cattered hou∫es are ∫een at the upper end of a fine ∫lope of inclo∫ures. The banks of the lake are fringed with trees, and under them the cry∫tal water is caught in a plea∫ing manner. At the north we∫t corner the DERWENT i∫∫ues from the lake, and is ∫panned by a hand∫ome ∫tone bridge of three arches. The whole we∫tern boundary is the noble range of wooded hills, the WYTHOP brows. On the ea∫tern ∫hore, the lake retires behind a penin∫ula, that ru∫hes far into the water, and on its extreme point, a ∫olitary oak, waving to every wind, is mo∫t picture∫que. This is SCARENSES. The coa∫t upward is a fine cultivated tract to the ∫kirts of SKIDDAW, which rai∫es here in awful maje∫ty his purple front. Far to the  ∫outh, WALLOW-CRAG, with all the range of rock, and broken craggy mountains in BORROWDALE, in fine per∫pective; and on their outline the ∫piral point of LANGDALE-PIKE appears blue as gla∫s. The deep green woods of FOE-PARK, and golden front of SWINSIDE, form a plea∫ing termination. STATION II. Return to the road by SCARENE∫, and de∫cend from the hou∫e to the oak tree, on the extremity of the promontory. The lake is here narrowe∫t but immediately ∫preading it∫elf both ways, forms two ∫emicircular bays; that on the right is a mile acro∫s, the bay on the left is ∫maller, the ∫hore on both ∫ides finely variegated with low wood and ∫cattered bu∫hes, e∫pecially the penin∫ula it∫elf. The upper bay is perfectly circular and finely wooded. In front, WYTHOP brows ri∫e ∫wift from the water's edge; the extremity of ∫ome inclo∫ures are picture∫que, ∫een ju∫t over the wood, with part of a cottage; the village of WYTHOP lies behind it in an aerial ∫ite. A gra∫s inclo∫ure ∫cooped in the bo∫om of the hanging wood, and under it, a cot, on the very brink of the lake, ∫tands  ∫weetly. The views downward are fine, the banks high and woody to the bridge, of which two arches are in ∫ight; behind it a white hou∫e is charmingly placed. More to the right, at the head of a gentle ∫lope, in the very centre of view, ∫tands ARMATHWAITE, winged with groves; and behind, at a ∫mall di∫tance, are deep hanging woods, and over them, ∫preading far to the right and left, a great reach of cultivated grounds. This termination is rich and plea∫ing to the eye. The view to the ∫outh is, as on the upper lake, much ∫oftned by di∫tance. In the afternoon, and ∫un ∫hining, the appearance of the ∫ilver grey rocks, gli∫tening through the green woods that hang on their fi∫∫ures, is mo∫t elegant. Behind, an appendix of SKIDDAW ri∫es in rude form; and over it, the chief of mountains frowns in Alpine maje∫ty. This view is well ∫een from the hou∫e of SCARENE∫. STATION III. The next remarkable promontory is BRADNA∫, a round green hill, that ∫preading it∫elf into the lake, forms a bay, with BOWNE∫ to the ∫outh. The be∫t general view of the lake is from the  crown of this hill, behind the farm hou∫e; here you look over three bays finely formed. Nothing can be imagined more elegant than the ∫inuo∫ity of this ∫ide, contra∫ted with the ∫teep ∫hore and lofty woods of the oppo∫ite. The view upwards is not le∫s charming, indented and wooded to the water's edge. If the∫e views are taken, beginning with BRADNE∫, then from SCARENE∫ take the road to BA∫ENTHWAITE-HALLS, a few hou∫es ∫o called; and from the road on the north ∫ide of the village, called RAKES, you have a very fine view of a rich cultivated tract, ∫tretching along the banks of the lake, and ∫preading it∫elf upwards to the ∫kirts of SKIDDAW. The elevation is ∫uch that every object is ∫een in full dimen∫ions, and every beauty di∫tinctly marked. The lake appears in its full magnitude, ∫haded by the bold wooded ∫hore on the we∫t, and graced by the ∫weet ∫preading vale on the ea∫t, that terminates in a bold ∫tile under the ∫urrounding mountains. The ∫loping ground to the bridge is charming, and the far extended vales of EMBLETON and I∫LE lie in fine  per∫pective. The river DERWENT has his winding cour∫e through the latter. ANTIQUITIES. CAER-MOT is about two miles further to the north, on the great road to old CARSLILE and WIGTON. It is a green high crowned hill, and on its ∫kirt, ju∫t by the road ∫ide, are the manife∫t ve∫tiges of a ∫quare encampment, inclo∫ed with a double lo∫s, extending from ea∫t and we∫t 120 paces, and from ∫outh to north 100 paces. It is ∫ubdivided into ∫everal cantonments, and the road from KESWICK to old CARSLILE has cro∫∫ed it at right angles, part of the agger is vi∫ible where it i∫∫ues from the north ∫ide of the camp, till where it falls in with the line of the pre∫ent road. It is di∫tant about ten miles from KESWICK, and as much from old CARSLILE, and about two miles we∫t of IREBY. CAMDEN propo∫es IREBY for the ARBEIA of the ROMANS, where the BERCARII TIGRINENSES were garri∫oned, but advances nothing in favour of his opinion. The ∫ituation is ∫uch as the ROMANS never made choice of, for a camp or garri∫on, and there  remains no ve∫tiges of either, by its being a deep glen, among ∫urrounding hills, where there is no pa∫s to guard, or country to protect, a body of men could be of no u∫e. On the northern extremity of the ∫aid hill of CAER-MOT are the remains of a beacon, and near it the ve∫tiges of a ∫quare encampment, enclo∫ed with a fo∫s and rampart of 60 feet by 70. This camp is in full view of BLATUM-BULGII (BOWNE∫), and OLENACUM (old CARSLILE), and commanding the whole extent of the SLOWAY FRITH, would receive the fir∫t notice from any frontier ∫tation, where the CALEDONIANS made the attempt to cro∫s the frith, or had actually broke in upon the province; the notice would be communicated by the beacon on CAER-MOT to the garri∫on at KESWICK, by the watch on CASTLE-CRAG in BORROWDALE. The garri∫on at KESWICK would have the care of the beacon at the top of SKIDDAW the mountain being of the ea∫ie∫t acce∫s on the ∫ide. By this means the alarm would ∫oon become general, and the invaders were either terrified into flight, or the whole country was in arms to oppo∫e them. Whether the∫e camps are the ARBEIA I pretend not to ∫ay, but that they were of u∫e to the ROMANS, is evident, and what the BRITONS thought of them, is recorded in the name they conferred on the hill, where they are ∫ituated. The larger camp has no advantage of ∫ite, and is but ill ∫upplied with water. The ground is of a ∫pungy nature, and retains wet long, and therefore could only be occupied in the ∫ummer months. They ∫eem to have the ∫ame relation to old CARLISLE and KESWICK, as the camp at WHITBARROW has to old PENRITH and KESWICK. From CAER-MOT de∫cend to OUSE-BRIDGE, and return to KESWICK up the we∫tern ∫ide of the lake. Every lower of land∫cape ∫hould take this ride in the afternoon; and if they ∫un ∫hines, it is plea∫ant and fine. The road branches off the great road to COCKERMOUTH a little below the bridge, and leads through the wood, and round the CASTLE-ROW: In ∫ome places it ri∫es above the lake a con∫iderable height, and the water is ∫een at intervals through a  ∫creen of low wood, that decks the banks of the lake, which is ∫ometimes entirely concealed, and again ∫uddenly caught at breaks in the wood. The road de∫cends to the level of the water, and pre∫ents you with a variety of ∫urpri∫ing views in different ∫tiles, that ∫hew them∫elves in an agreeable ∫ucce∫∫ion, as the eye wanders in amazement along the lake. STATION IV. At BECK-WYTHOP, the lake ∫preads out in a great expan∫e of water; its outlet concealed by CASTLE-HOW. The immediate ∫hore is lined with rocks, that range along banks completely dre∫∫ed in low wood; and over them WYTHOP brows, ri∫e almo∫t perpendicular. The oppo∫ite ∫hore is much variegated, and deep embayed by the bold promontories of SCARENE∫, BOWNE∫, and BRADNE∫. Ju∫t oppo∫ite to you, a little removed from the margin of the lake, and under a range of wood, ∫ee the ∫olitary church of BA∫ENTHWAITE; its back guard is gloomy ULLOCK, a de∫cendant hill of parent SKIDDAW, robed in purple heath, trimmed with ∫oft verdure. The whole cultivated tract between the mountains and the  lake is ∫een here in all its beauty, and SKIDDAW appears no where of ∫uch maje∫tic height as from this point, magnified by the accompanyment of le∫∫er hills that ∫urround his ba∫e. Over the northern extremity of his expan∫e of water, the ground ri∫es in an ea∫y ∫lope, and in the point of beauty ARMATHWAITE is ∫eated, queen of the lake, on which ∫he ∫miles in graceful beauty, and elegant ea∫e. On each hand are hanging woods; the ∫pace between confe∫∫es much cultivation, divided by inclo∫ures, waving up to farms ∫een under the ∫kirts of CAER-MOT, the crown topt hill, that clo∫es this ∫cene with the mo∫t elegant form, and in the ∫weete∫t manner po∫∫ible. If the ∫un ∫hines you may be entertained here for hours with plea∫ing variety of land∫cape. All the views up the lake, are in a ∫tile great and ∫ublime. They are ∫een in the bo∫om of the lake, and, by reflection, ∫oftened with plea∫ing tints, and rich colouring. The magnitude of objects is pre∫erved, or but little dimini∫hed by the convexity of the watery mirror; but to the gla∫s is re∫erved the fini∫hed  picture, in highe∫t colouring, and ju∫t per∫pective. As you emerge from the wood, at the gate leading to the open ∫pace, there is a magnificent bird's-eye view, KESWICK in the centre of a grand ampitheatre of mountains. Proceeding along the banks of the lake, the road leads through THORNTHWAITE and PORTINSCALE to KESWICK. A morning ride up the vale of NEWLAND to This ride remains hitherto unnoticed, though one of the mo∫t plea∫ing and ∫urpri∫ing in the environs of KESWICK. Company who vi∫it the vale of KESWICK, and view the lake from CASTLE-RIGG: LATRIGG, SWINSIDE, and vicarage, imagine inacce∫∫ible mountains only remain beyond the line of this amazing tract. But whoever takes the ride up NEWLAND vale, will be agreeably ∫urpri∫ed with ∫ome of the fine∫t ∫olemn pa∫toral ∫cenes, they have yet beheld. An arrangement of va∫t mountains, entirely new, both in form and colouring  of rock. Va∫t hollow craters ∫cooped in their bo∫oms, once the ∫eeming ∫eats of raging liquid fire; at pre∫ent overflowing with pure∫t water, that foams down the craggy brows in impetuous torrents; woods ∫kirt their ba∫e, and lakes lie at their feet, clear as the DERWENT. The ∫ofter parts of the∫e ∫cenes, are verdant hills patched with wood, ∫potted with variety of rock, and pa∫tured with herds and flocks. The ride is along SWINSIDE, and having turned the brow of the hill, and pa∫t the fir∫t hou∫es through which the road leads, ob∫erve at the gate on the right, a view down a narrow vale, plea∫ing in a high degree. The road winds through a glade, along the ∫ide of a rapid gurgling brook, that ripples down a ∫tony channel; its water clear as cry∫tal. At the hedge-row-tree under ROWLINGEND, a brawny mountain, turn and have a new and plea∫ing view of the vale of KESWICK. The road has a gentle a∫cent, and the rivulet is heard murmuring below. At the upper end of the cultivated part of the vale, a green pyramidal hill, divided  into waving inclo∫ures, looks down the vale upon KESWICK, &c. The verdant hills on each ∫ide terminate in awful, rude mountains, that tower to the ∫kies in variety of grote∫que forms, and on their murky furrowed ∫ides hang many torrents. Above GASGADALE, the la∫t hou∫es in NEWLAND, no traces of human indu∫try appears; all is naked ∫olitude and ∫imple nature, in a variety of fanta∫tic forms. The vale now becomes a dell, the road a path. The lower parts are pa∫tured with a motly herd, the middle tract the flocks a∫∫ume, the upper regions, to man inacce∫∫ible, are abandoned to the birds of JOVE. Here untamed nature holds her reign in ∫olemn ∫ilence, amid∫t the gloom and grandeur of dreary ∫olitude. The morning ∫un beaming on the blue and yellow mountains ∫ides, produces effects of light and ∫hade, the mo∫t charming that ever a ∫on of APELLES, or genius of RAPHAEL imagined. In approaching the head of NEWLAND-HAWSE, on the left, a mountain of purple coloured rock pre∫ents a thou∫and gaping cha∫ms, excavated by torrents that roaring fall into a ba∫on, formed in the bo∫om of the mountain, and thence precipitating  over a wall of rock, become a brook below. In front is a va∫t rocky mountain, the barrier of the dell, that oppo∫es it∫elf to all further acce∫s. Among the variety of water-falls that di∫tingui∫h this awful boundary of rock, one catches the eye at a di∫tance, that exceeds the boa∫ted LOWDORE, as much as CAWSEY-PIKE does CASTLE-RIGG, in height of rock, and unity of fall; whil∫t the beholder is free from all anxiety of mind in the approach; not one pebble or grain of ∫and offends, but all is nature in her ∫weete∫t trim of verdant turf, ∫pread out to plea∫e her votaries. Whoever would enjoy, with ea∫e and ∫afety, Alpine views, and pa∫toral ∫cenes in the ∫ublime ∫tile, may have them in this morning ride. The road, or rather tract becomes le∫s agreeable for a few roods, not from any difficulty in the fine∫t mountain turf, where roads may be made at the lea∫t expence, but from the dulne∫s of the dale∫men, who habituate them∫elves to tread in the tract made by their flocks. It will not be labour lo∫t  to walk a few roods, and ∫ee a new creation of mountains, as unlike what are left behind, as the ANDES are to the ALPS. The contra∫t is really ∫triking, and appear at once on the ∫ummit of the hill. On the right, at the head of a deep green dell, a naked furrowed mountain of an orange hue, has a ∫trange appearance among∫t his verdant neighbours, and ∫inks, by his height, SKIDDAW it∫elf. De∫cend the tract on the left, and ∫oon have in ∫ight the highe∫t po∫∫ible contra∫t in nature, in ∫ublime Alpine ∫cenery. Four ∫piral, towering mountains, dark, dun and gloomy at noon-day, ri∫e immediately from the we∫tern extremity of the deep narrow dell, and hang over BUTTERMERE. The more ∫outhern is by the dale∫men, from its form, called HAY-RICK; the more pyramidal, HIGH-CRAG; the third HIGH-STEEL; and the fourth, from the ferruginous colour, RED-PIKE. Between the ∫econd and third, there is a large crater, that from the parched colour of conical mountains, is who∫e bo∫om it is formed, appears to have been the focus of a volcano in ∫ome di∫tant period  of time, and the cones produced by explo∫ion. At pre∫ent it is the re∫ervoir that feeds the roaring cataract you ∫ee in the de∫cent to BUTTERMERE. Here all is barrene∫s, ∫olitude, and ∫ilence, only interupted with the murmurs of a rill, that runs un∫een in the narrow bo∫om of a deep dell. The ∫mooth verdant ∫ides of the va∫t hills on the right, have many furrows engraven in their ∫ides by the winter rains; and the fable mountains in front, pre∫ent all the horrors of cloven rock, broken cliff, and mountain ∫treams tumbling headlong. Some traces of indu∫try obtruding them∫elves at the foot of the glen, di∫turb the ∫olemn ∫olitude, with which the eye and mind have been delighted, and point out your return to ∫ociety, and that you approach the village of BUTTERMERE, which is ∫ituated betwixt the lakes, and con∫i∫ts of ∫ixteen hou∫es. The chapel here is very ∫mall, the ∫tipend not large, and though twice augmented with the queen's bounty, exceeds not twenty pounds per annum. This is one of the cures Mr. PENNANT mentions, but the perqu∫ites of the clog-∫hoes, harden-∫ark, whittle-gate, and goo∫-gate,  the pre∫ent incumbent does not enjoy. The horrid dark mountains above de∫cribed, ∫coul over the village, and the cataract from the crater thunders down their ∫ides. The life of the inhabitants is purely pa∫toral; a few hands are employed in the ∫tate quarries; the women ∫pin woolen yarn, and drink tea. Above the village you have a view of the upper lake, two miles in length, and much under one in breadth. It is terminated on the we∫tern ∫ide by the ferruginous mountains already de∫cribed; a ∫tripe of cultivated ground adorns the ea∫tern ∫hore. A group of hou∫es, GATESGARTH, is ∫eated on the ∫outhern extremity, under the mo∫t extraordinary ampitheatre of mountainous rock that ever eye beheld, HONISTAR-CRAG ri∫ing to an immen∫e height, flanked by two conic mountains, FLEETWITH on the ea∫t, and SCARF on the we∫tern ∫ide. A hundred mountain torrents form a never failing cataract, that down the centre of the rock, fall foaming headlong with a thundering noi∫e, and form the lake. Mr. GRAY's account of BARROWSIDE, and his relation to BORROWDAL, are hyperboles, the ∫port of fancy that he was plea∫ed to indulge him∫elf in. A per∫on that has cro∫∫ed the ALPS or APPENINES, will meet with only miniatures here of the huge rocks and precipices, the va∫t hills, and ∫now topt mountains he ∫aw there; and though he may ob∫erve much ∫imilarity in the ∫tile, there is none in the danger. SKIDDAW, HELVELLYN, and CATCHIDECAM, are but dwarfs when compared with mount MAUDITE above the lake of GENEVA, and the guardian mountains of the RHONE. Here the rocky ∫cenes and mountain land∫cape, are diver∫ified and contra∫ted with all that agrandizes the ∫ubject in the mo∫t ∫ublime ∫tile; and con∫titutes a picture the mo∫ŧ enchanting of any in the∫e parts. If the roads in ∫ome places are narrow and difficult, they are at lea∫t ∫afe; no villainous banditti haunt the mountains; innocent people live in the dells. Every cottager is narrative of all he knows; and mountain virtue, and pa∫toral ho∫pitality are found at every farm. This con∫titutes a plea∫ing difference betwixt travelling here and on the continent, where  every innholder is an extortioner, and every voiturine an impo∫ing rogue. The ∫pace betwixt the lakes is under a mile, of pa∫ture and meadow ground. The lower lake, called CRUMMOCK WATER ∫oon opens after you leave the village, and pa∫s through an oaken grove. A fine expan∫e of water ∫weeps away to the right under a rocky promontory, RANDON-KNOT, or BUTTERMERE-HAWSE. The road ∫erpentizes round the rock, and under a rugged pyramidal craggy mountain. From the cre∫t of this rock, the whole extent of the lake is di∫covered. On the we∫tern ∫ide, the mountains ri∫e immediately from the water's edge, bold and abrupt. Ju∫t in front between BLEA-CRAG and MELLBREACK are two ∫piral hills; the hoar∫e re∫ounding noi∫e of a water-fall is heard acro∫s the lake, concealed within the bo∫om of the cliff, through which it has forced its way, and when viewed from the foot of the fall, is a mo∫t a∫toni∫hing phÆnomenon. This lake is beautified with three ∫mall i∫les; one of rock lies ju∫t before you.  The whole ea∫tern ∫hore is diver∫ified with bays, the banks with ∫cattered trees, and a few inclo∫ures, terminated by a hanging wood. At the foot of the lake a high crowned hill pu∫hes forward, fringed with trees, and ∫weetly laid out with inclo∫ures; and above it, on a cultivated ∫lope, is the chapel of LOWES WATER, ∫urrounded with ∫cattered farms; behind all, LOW-FELL ∫wells his verdant front, a ∫weet contra∫t to his murky neighbours, and a plea∫ing termination, ∫een from the top of this rock, or from the bo∫om of the lake. The chain of pyramidal mountains, on each ∫ide of this narrow vale, are extremely picture∫que, they ri∫e from di∫tinct bales, and ∫well into the mo∫t grote∫que forms, and bur∫t into rocky heads, ∫erated here, and broken there. The∫e lakes are of a much greater depth than DERWENT, and may be the only rea∫on why they hold char, and the other does not. The char in the ∫ummer months retire to the deeps, probably to avoid the heat. The water here is clear, but not ∫o tran∫parent  as the DERWENT. The outlet is at the north ea∫t corner, by the river COCKER, over which is hand∫ome ∫tone bridge of four arches. This lake is four miles in length, and almo∫t half a mile over in ∫ome places. Proceed from the bridge by HIGH-CRO∫, to the lake of LOWES WATER. Having pa∫∫ed through a gate that leads to the common, the lake ∫preads out before you, a mile in length, and of equal breadth, about a quarter of a mile. The extremities are rivals in beauty of hanging woods, little groves, and waving inclo∫ures, with farms ∫eated in the ∫weete∫t points of view. The ∫outh end is overlooked by lofty MELLBREACK, at who∫e foot a white hou∫e, within ∫ome gra∫s inclo∫ures, under a few trees, ∫tands in the point of beauty; the ea∫tern ∫hore is open, and indented with ∫mall bays; the oppo∫ite ∫ide is more plea∫ing. CARLING-KNOT pre∫ents a broad pyramidal front of ∫wift a∫cent, covered with ∫oft vegetation, and ∫prinkled with many aged ∫olitary  thorns. On each ∫ide the outline waves upward in the fine∫t manner, terminated in a cone of grey rock, patched with verdure. This lake, in oppo∫ition to all the other lakes, and the fall of the mountains, has its cour∫e from north to ∫outh, and under MELLBREAK falls into the CRUMMOCK WATER. This lake is of no great depth, and without char, but it abounds, as all the others do, in fine trout, &c. An evening view of both lakes, is from the ∫ide of MELLBREACK, at the gate, under a copice of oak, in the road of ENNERDALE. Nothing exceeds, in compo∫ition, the parts of this land∫cape; they are all great, and lie in fine order of per∫pective. If the view be taken from the road knowl at the lower end of the lake, the appearance of the mountains that bound it is a∫toni∫hing. MELLBREACK on the right, and GRASMERE on the left, are in the points of di∫tance, on the near fore-ground of this land∫cape, and  betwixt them, a ∫tupendous ampitheatre of mountains, their heads all broken and di∫∫imilar, and of different hues; their ba∫es are ∫kirted with wood, or cloathed with verdure. In the centre point of this ampitheatre, is a huge pyramidal broken rock, that ∫eems, with its figure, to change place as you move acro∫s the fore-ground, and gives much variety to the ∫cenes, and changes the picture at every pace. The picture∫que views here are many; the ∫cenes, ∫ome mixt, others purely ∫ublime, all ∫urpri∫e and please. The genius of the greate∫t adepts in land∫cape, might here improve in ta∫te and judgement; and the mo∫t enthu∫ia∫tic ardor for pa∫toral poetry, and painting, will here find an inexhau∫tible ∫ource of ∫tudies, and magical ∫cenes. When the roads to ENNDERDALE and WEST-WATER are improved, they may be taken in this morning ride; SMITH's views of them are the true∫t likene∫∫es. From the Bridge at the foot of the lake, a∫cend the road to BRACKENTHWAITE. At the hedge ale-hou∫e, SCALE-HILL, take a guide  to the top of the rock, above Mr. BERTIE's woods, and have a view of CRUMMOCK WATER entirely new. The river COCKER is ∫een winding through a beautiful, and rich cultivated vale, ∫preading far to the north, variegated with woods, groves, and hanging grounds, in every plea∫ing variety. The mo∫t ∫ingular object in this vale of LORTON and BRACKENTHWAITE, is a high crown-topt rock, that divides the vale, and rai∫es a broken craggy head over hanging woods, that ∫kirt the ∫loping ∫ides, cut into waving inclo∫ures, varied with groves, and patches of copice wood. To the we∫t, a part of LOWES WATER lake is ∫een, under a fringe of trees at HIGH-CRO∫. Behind you, awful GRASMERE, the SKIDDAW of the vale, frowns in all the maje∫ty of furrowed rock, cut almo∫t perpendicular to the center by the water-fall of ages. The ∫well of a cataract is heard, but entirely concealed within the gloomy rece∫s of a rocky dell, formed by the rival mountains, GRASMERE and SILVERSIDE, who∫e purple dre∫s is variegated with ∫ilver-grey rock. At their feet lie the mighty-ruins, brought down from the mountains by the memorable water-∫pout,  that deluged all the vale in September, 1760. After this, the mountains become humble hills, and terminate the ∫weet vale, that CARLINE-KNOT, ∫preading it∫elf into a country watered by the COCKER. The ride down the vale is plea∫ant; all the ∫cenes are ∫miling, rich, and rural. Every dalelander appears to be a man of ta∫te, every village, hou∫e, and cot, is placed in the choicest ∫ite, and decorated in the fine∫t manner and ∫tile of natural elegance. Not one formal avenue, or ∫treight lined hedge, or ∫quare fi∫h-pond offends the eye in all this charming vale. The variety of ∫ituation gives diver∫ity of views, and a ∫ucce∫∫ion of plea∫ing objects creates the de∫ire of ∫eeing. The back view is under a wooded hill, near the fifth mile-po∫t, and is fine. Here return up the great road to KESWICK. From KESWICK to PENRITH, ∫eventeen miles of excellently good road, through an open wild country. ANTIQUITIES. Upon HUTTON-MOOR, and on the north ∫ide of the great road, may be traced the path of the Roman road, that leads from old PENRITH, or PLUMPTON-WALL, in a line almo∫t due we∫t, to KESWICK. Upon the moor are the traces of a large encampment that the road traver∫es. And a little beyond the eighth mile-po∫t, on the left, at WHITBARROW, are ∫trong ve∫tiges of a ∫quare encampment. The Roman road beyond that, is met with in the inclo∫ed fields of WHITBARROW, and is known by the farmers, from the oppo∫ition they meet with in plowing acro∫s it. After that it is found entire on the common called GRAYSTOCK-LOW-MOOR; and la∫t ∫ummer they have formed a new road on the agger of it. It proceeds in a right line to GRAYSTOCK town: where it makes a flexure to the left, and ∫o continues in a line to BLENCOW, and is found in a plowed field, about 200 yards to the north of LITTLE-BLENCOW, pointing at COACH-GATE, and from thence it pa∫∫es on the north-∫ide of KELLBARROW, and through COW-CLOSE, and was di∫covered in making the new turnpike road from PENRITH to COCKERMOUTH, which it cro∫∫ed near the toll-gate; from  thence it ∫tretches over WHITRIGG in a right line, and is vi∫ible on the edge of the wood at FAIRBANK, and in the lane called LOW-STREET; from thence it points through enclo∫ed land, to the ∫outh end of the ∫tation, called PLUMPTON-WALL, and old PENRITH. It cro∫∫ed the brook PETTERAL, at TOPIN-HOLME. In the year 1772, near LITTLE-BLENCOW, in removing a heap of ∫tones, two urns were taken up, about two feet and a half high, made of very coar∫e earth, and cru∫ted on both ∫ides with a brown clay, the top remarkably wide, and covered with a red flat ∫tone. Be∫ides the a∫hes and bones, each urn had a ∫mall cup within it, of a fine clay, in ∫hape of a tea-cup; one was pierced in the center of the bottom part. The place where they were taken up is called LODDON-HOW, within 20 yards of the road between PENRITH and SKELTON, and about 200 yards from the Roman road, and four miles from the ∫tation. On the banks of the PETTERAL, a few roods from the ∫outh corner of the ∫tation, an altar was lately found. Its height three feet four inches,  and near ∫ixteen inches ∫quare; it had been thrown down from the upper ground, and the corners of it broke off in the fall. The front has been filled with an in∫cription, the letters ∫hort and ∫quare, but not one word legible. On the right hand ∫ide is the patera, with a handle, and underneath the ∫ece∫pita. On the oppo∫ite ∫ide is the ampula, and from its lip a ∫erpent or viper de∫cends in waves. The back part is rude, as if intended to ∫tand again∫t a wall. The emblems are in excellent pre∫ervation. The ca∫trum is 168 paces from ∫outh to north, by 110 within the fo∫s, which was al∫o ∫urrounded with a ∫tone-wall; the ∫tones have been removed to the fence wall on the road ∫ide, and being in PLUMPTON, is called PLUMPTON-WALL. The ∫tation is a va∫t heap of ruins, of ∫tone buildings; the walls of great thickne∫s and cemented. The town has ∫urrounded the ∫tation, except on the ∫ide of the PETTERAL. But whether the ∫tation took its name from the river, as being upon its banks, and was called the PETTRIANA, or  whether the ∫tation gave name to the river, which is the lea∫t probable, let him who can determine. The ∫tation is twelve miles and three quarters from CARLISLE, five and a quarter from PENRITH, about ∫even from BROUGHAM-CASTLE, and about eighteen from KESWICK, where an intermediate ∫tation mu∫t have been between AMBLESIDE, and MORESBY, and between old PENRITH and MORESBY, having CAER-MOT between it and old CARLISLE, and PAPCASTLE between it and MORESBY. The ∫ummer ∫tation would be on CASTLE-HILL, and the winter ∫tation on the area of the pre∫ent town of KESWICK, or on ∫ome convenient place betwixt the conflux of the rivers GREETA and DERWENT. And it is more probable that the DIRVENTIONE of the CHORAGRAPHIA was here, than at PAPCASTLE, which comes better in for the PAMPOCALIA of the ∫ame CHORAGRAPHIA. A ∫tation here would be an efficacious check on any body of the enemy that might cro∫s the e∫tuaries, above or below BOULNE∫, and pa∫s the watch there, and the garri∫ons at old CARLISLE, ELLENBOROUGH,  PAPCASTLE, and MORESBY; for it was impo∫∫ible for any body of men to proceed to the ∫outh but by BORROWDALE or DUNMAIL-RAISE, and a garri∫on at KESWICK commanded both the∫e pa∫∫es. The watch at CAER-MOT would give the alarm to that on CASTLE-CRAG, in the pa∫s of BORROWDALE, and the centinel on CASTLET-HEAD that overlooks KESWICK, would communicate the ∫ame to the garri∫on there; ∫o it is apparently impo∫∫ible that any body of men could pa∫s that way. But if they attempted a rout on the northern ∫ide of SKIDDAW, and over HUTTON-MOOR to PATTERDALE, the watch at CAER-MOT was in ∫ight, both of old CARLISLE and KESWICK, and the garri∫on of the latter might either pur∫ue, or give notice to WHITBARROW and AMBLESIDE, to meet them in the pa∫s at the head of PATTERDALE, called KIRKSTON, which is ∫o ∫teep and narrow, and crowded with rocks, that a few veteran troops would ea∫ily ∫top the career of a tumultuous crowd, who falling back upon each other, would increa∫e their de∫truction, in flying down a precipitous pa∫s; if they made good the pa∫s, and turned to the ea∫t before the ROMANS  arrived, they would in that ca∫e be hara∫∫ed in the rear, till they arrived at KENDAL, where the watchment from WATER-CROOK would be ready to receive them, and then they would be attacked in front and rear. That the ROMANS have had engagements at KIRKSTON pa∫s, is evident from the Roman arms that were lately found in the ajoining mo∫s; there are al∫o many heaps of ∫tones collected, which have the appearance of barrows. The∫e are the only pa∫∫es among∫t the mountains, that a body of CALENDONIANS could attempt in their way to the ∫outh, and the∫e could not be ∫ecured without a ∫tation at KESWICK, and that could not be more advantageou∫ly placed, than were the town ∫tands, on the meeting of the roads from the ∫urrounding ∫tations, all about an equal di∫tance, and at ∫uch a di∫tance as rendered a ∫tation here nece∫∫ary, and the ∫everal ca∫tellums, on CASTLE-CRAG, and CASTLE-HILL, and CASTLET, u∫eful in giving notice, and guarding the∫e important po∫ts. That no ve∫tige is now vi∫ible of a ∫tation ever being here,  nor any notice taken of it by CAMDEN, HORSLEY, and others, nor even a traditional record of its exi∫tence, are ∫eeming difficulties, which put the negative on what has been advanced. That no ve∫tiges remain only proves that the place had been defaced at an early period, when no care was taken to pre∫erve the memory of ∫uch remains, and that the town occupies the whole area of the ∫tation, and that the ∫tation had been placed within the ∫ite of the town, probably in the lower part, facing the pa∫s of the GREETA. In the wheel of the GREETA, a meadow penin∫ulated by the river, ju∫t below the town, and called the GOATS-FIELD, there are ve∫tiges of a fo∫s, but too imperfect to draw a conclu∫ion from, in favour of the ∫tation. The ground round the town is very fertile, and has been long enough cultivated to de∫troy any remains; what have been accidentally di∫covered are gone into oblivion, and no change happening in the town it∫elf to occa∫ion new di∫coveries, the memory of what has been is fled with time. If CAMDEN vi∫ited KESWICK, he was ∫ati∫fied with the then pre∫ent ∫tate of the "little town, which King EDWARD I. made a market."  The face of the country only drew his attention. That HORSLEY never vi∫isted the∫e parts is evident, from his mi∫taken account of the road from PLUMPTON-WALL to KESWICK, which he ∫ays pa∫∫ed through GRAYSTOCK-PARK this, had he but ∫een the face of the country, he could never had imagined. His mi∫take, and CAMDEN's ∫ilence, gave occa∫ion to a regular ∫urvey of the ∫aid road, and finding the military roads from PAPCASTLE, ELENBOROUGH, MORESBY, AMBLESIDE, and PLUMPTON, all concide at KESWICK, and for the other rea∫ons already a∫∫igned, it appeared evident that a ∫tation mu∫t be ∫ome where near. The CASTLE-HILL above KESWICK, is a faithful record of the exi∫tence of a ∫tation in this country. Here was the ∫eat of the ancient lords of the manor by DERWENT-WATER, probably rai∫ed on the ruins of the Roman fortre∫s: But after the heire∫s of that family was married to RATCLIFF's, the family ∫eat was removed into NORTHUMBERLAND, and the ca∫tle went to ruins; and with the ∫tones thereof the RATCLIFFs built a hou∫e of plea∫ure in one of the i∫lands of DERWENT WATER. The  name CASTLE-HILL, being more ancient that the la∫t erection is ∫till retained. At AMBLESIDE when I enquired for the Roman ∫tation, a few years ago, no one could inform me, but upon one per∫on con∫idering the de∫cription I gave of it, an∫wered, It is the ca∫tle. The ∫tation at PLUMPTON is called by the ∫ame name; and at KENDAL, the ca∫tellum that overlooks the ∫tation, is al∫o called the CASTLE-STEADS. So here the CASTLE-HILL, is the place of the ∫ummer ∫tation, but being a fruitful tract, and much plowed, I have not been able to trace any appearance of a fo∫s or vallum, and therefore the whole of this conjecture mu∫t re∫t upon the nece∫∫ity, or at lea∫t on the expediency of a ∫tation here. Since the writing of the above, in a field below the town, an urn with other remains was found by the plow, and ∫aid to be Roman. Tho∫e who do no chu∫e to go as far as PENRITH, may, near the eighth mile-po∫t turn off to the right; MELL-FELL, a round  green hill, will be on the left to MATTERDALE; and into GOWBARROW-PARK, which brings them upon ULLS WATER, about the middle part of it, where it is ∫een to great advantage. But here it mu∫t be ob∫erved that ∫ome of the greate∫t beauties of the lake, and ∫weete∫t ∫cenes, are entirely lo∫t by this rout. DUNMALLET, the greate∫t ornament of the lake, with the whole of the fir∫t great bend remain un∫een, and much of the dignity of the lake is thereby de∫troyed. It is therefore better to ride on to the gate on the right, that leads to DACRE, and over DACRE common, to the foot of DUNMALLET. By this cour∫e, every part of the lake will be viewed to the greate∫t advantage. Mr. GRAY's choice of vi∫iting this lake was from PENRITH, up the vale of EAMON. "A grey autumnal day, went to ∫ee ULLS WATER, five miles di∫tant; ∫oon left KESWICK road, and turned to the left through ∫hady lanes along the vale of EAMON, which runs rapidly on near the way, ripling over the ∫tones; to the right DALEMAIN a large fabric of pale red ∫tone, with nine windows in front, and ∫even on the ∫ide.  Farther on, HUTTON ST. JOHN, a ca∫tle-like old man∫ion of Mr. HUDDLESTON's. Approach DUNMALLET, a fine pointed hill, covered with wood. Began to mount the hill, and with ∫ome toil, gained the ∫ummit. From hence ∫aw the lake opening directly at my feet, maje∫tic in its calmne∫s, clear and ∫mooth as a blue mirror, with winding ∫hores, and low point of land, covered with green inclo∫ures, white farm hou∫es looking out among the trees, and cattle feeding. The water is almo∫t every where bordered with cultivated lands, gently ∫loping upwards, from a mile to a quarter of a mile in breadth, till they reach the feet of the mountains, which ri∫e very rude and awful with their broken tops on either hand. Directly in frout, at better than three miles di∫tance, PLACE-FELL, one of the brave∫t among them, pu∫hes its bold broad brea∫t into the mid∫t of the lake, and forces it to alter its cour∫e, forming fir∫t a large bay to the left, and then bending to the right. De∫cended DUNMALLET by a ∫ide avenue, only not perpendicular, and came to BARTON-BRIDGE over the EAMON. Then walked through a path in the wood, round  the bottom of the hill, came forth where the EAMON i∫∫ues out of the lake, and continued my way along the we∫tern ∫hore, clo∫e to the water, and generally on a level with it; it is nine miles long, and at wide∫t under a mile in breadth. After extending it∫elf three miles and a half in a line to the ∫outh we∫t, it turns at the foot of PLACE-FELLcdplace, almo∫t due we∫t, and is here not twice the breadth of the THAMES at LONDON. It is ∫oon again interrupted by the root of HELVELLYN, a lofty and very rugged mountain, and ∫preading again, turns off to the ∫outh ea∫t, and is lo∫t among the deep rece∫∫es of hills. To this ∫econd turning I pur∫ued my way, about four miles, along its borders, beyond a village ∫cattered among trees, and called WATERMILLOCK." Here Mr. GRAY leaves us, and the greate∫t part of the lake un∫een, and the mo∫t picture∫que parts unde∫cribed: The la∫t bend of the lake is ∫potted with rocky i∫les, deeply indented with wooded promontories on one ∫ide, and rocks on the other. ANTIQUITIES. Before you quit the top of DUNMALLET, ob∫erve the ve∫tiges of its former importance; an area of 110 paces,  by 37, ∫urrounded with a fo∫s, ∫till vi∫ible; ∫tones of the rampart ∫till peep through the gra∫s. The well, that ∫upplied the guard kept here, was but lately filled up with ∫tones. This fort mu∫t have been of much con∫equence in guarding the lake, and commanding the pa∫s; and maintaining a connexion between the garri∫ons of AMBLESIDE and BROUGHAM, being five or ∫ix miles di∫tance from the latter, and nineteen from the former. There are ∫trong ve∫tiges of a ∫quare ∫ort on SOULBY-FELL, which communicates with this and the camp at WHITBARROW. Oppo∫ite to WATERMILLOCK, a cataract de∫cends the front of SWARTH-FELL, in MARTINDALE forre∫t. At SKILLING-NAB, a bold promontory, the lake is contracted to a ∫pan, but ∫oon ∫preads it∫elf again both ways, forming a variety of ∫weet bays and promontories. After a reach of three miles, it winds, with a grand ∫weep, round the ∫mooth brea∫t of PLACE-FELL, and making a turn directly ∫outh, advances with equal breadth towards PATTERDALE. The we∫tern ∫hore is various. Drawing near the ∫econd  bend, the mountains ∫trangely inter∫ect each other. Behind many wooded hills, ri∫es STONE-CRO∫-PIKE, and over all, ∫teep HELVELLYN ∫hews his ∫overeign head. On the we∫tern ∫ide YEW-CRAG, a noble pile of rock, fronts PLACE-FELL, where it weeps in a cataract to the lake. GOWBARROW-PARK opens with a grand ampitheatre of ∫hining rock, the floor of which is ∫pread with ∫oft green pa∫ture, once ∫haded with ancient oaks, to which many decayed roots bear witne∫s. Scattered thorns, trees, and bu∫hes vary the ground pa∫tured with flocks, herds of cattle, and fallow-deer. The road winds along the margin of the lake, clear as a mirror, at every turn renewing ∫cenes the fine∫t that can be imagined. At the upper end of GOWBARROW-PARK, the la∫t bend of the lake, which is by much the fine∫t, opens, ∫cattered with ∫mall rocky i∫lands; the ∫hores are bold, rocky, wooded, and much embayed. Pa∫s NEW-BRIDGE, the road winds up a ∫teep rock, having the lake underneath you on the left. From the top, have a view under the trees both up and down the lake. MARTINDALE-FELL, a naked grey rock, on the opo∫ite  shore, ri∫es abruptly from the water, to an Alpine height, the effect is a∫toni∫hing. The rock you ∫tand upon hangs over the lake, blue and unfathomable to the eye; an i∫land in the middle ∫pace has beautiful effect. This is the mo∫t romantic, plea∫ing, and terrible ∫ituation upon the lake, e∫pecially if the wind blows the ∫urges of the water again∫t the rock below you. The ∫hores on both ∫ides upward are very plea∫ing, and the little decorating i∫les are ∫cattered in the mo∫t exqui∫ite ta∫te, and delightful order. The ride along the banks, ∫ince the repair of the road, is charming. The upper end terminates in ∫weet meadows, ∫urrounded on the right by towering rocky hills, broken and wooded. MARTINDALE-FELL is the oppo∫ite boundary, ∫kirted here with hanging inclo∫ures, cots, and farms. The principal feeders of the lake are GRYSDALE-BECK, on the we∫tern corner, and GOLDRILL-BECK; they enter the lake in a freer manner than the feeder of DERWENT  does, and make a much finer appearance where they join the lake. From the bridge in PATTERDALE, GOLDRILL-BECK ∫erpentizes ∫weetly through the meadows, and falls ea∫ily into the lake about the middle of the vale. GLENCAIRN-BECK, de∫cending from HELVELLYN, joins the lake a AIREY-BRIDGE. There is from the top of the rock, above the inn, a very charming view of the la∫t bend of the lake, which con∫titutes one of the fine∫t land∫capes on it, and takes in ju∫t enough for a delightful picture. The neare∫t fore-ground is a fall of inclo∫ures, a rocky wooded mountain that hangs over PATTERDALE-HOUSE, MARTINDALE-FELL, is in the point of di∫tance on the right; ∫teep rocks, and ∫haggy woods hanging from their ∫ides, on the left; GOWBARROW-PARK ri∫es in a fine ∫tile from the water edge for the back-ground; and a noble reach of water, beautifully ∫potted with rocky i∫les, charmingly di∫po∫ed, with perpetual change of rocky ∫hore, fill the middle ∫pace of this beautiful picture. This lake is of a depth ∫ufficient for breeding char, and abounds with variety of other fi∫h. Trout of thirty pounds weight, and upwards, are ∫aid to be taken here. The water of the lake is very clear, but has nothing of the tran∫parency of DERWENT, and is inferior to BUTTERMERE and CRUMMOCK WATER al∫o in this re∫pect. The ∫tones in the bottom, and along the ∫hores, are coated with mud. Mr. GRAY ob∫erved, in viewing this lake, the ∫ame order as at KESWICK, along its banks and facing the mountains; from the parity of rea∫on, that the idea of magnitude and magnificence are thereby increa∫ed as much as po∫∫ible, with advantage of fore-ground; and every object viewed this way appears much higher than when ∫een from an elevated ∫tation, which depre∫∫es the dimen∫ion, on which the idea of magnitude and magnificence depend. This lake viewed from any height except DUNMALLET, lo∫es much of its dignity as a lake, from the number of its flexures, and juttings out of  promontories, but it retains the appearance of a magnificent river ingulphed in rocks. The bold winding hills, the inter∫ecting mountains, the pyramidal cliffs, the bulging, broken, rugged-rocks, the hanging woods, the ea∫y water-falls in ∫ome places, and in others the tumbling roaring cataract, are parts of the ∫ublimer ∫cenes in this ∫urpri∫ing vale. The cultivated ∫pots wave upward from the water in beautiful ∫lopes, inter∫ected by hedges, waving with trees in the mo∫t picture∫que manner; man∫ions, cottages, and farms, placed in ∫weete∫t points, are the rural parts, and altogether form the mo∫t delightful charming ∫cenes. The accompanyments of this lake are di∫po∫ed in the mo∫t picture∫que order, bending round its margin, and ∫preading upwards in craggy rocks and mountains, irregular in height and ∫hape, and broken topt, yet much inferior in ∫ublime height, and horrible grandeur to the environs of KESWICK, and the dreaful rocks in BORROWDALE. But in this opinion we have Mr. CUMBERLAND again∫t us, who having vi∫ited and ∫een the other lakes in dark unfavourable weather, when nothing  could be ∫een, be∫ides weeping rocks, flooded roads, and watery plains, darkened by ∫able clouds that hovered over them motionle∫s, and concealed their variegated ∫hores, entertained an unfavourable idea of them; and being more fortunate in a fine day, in that part of the tour, where he vi∫ited ULLS WATER, he attuned his lyre in honour of this enchanting lake, and ∫ung its charms in preference not only to WINDERMERE, GRASMERE, and the vale of KESWICK, but rai∫es it above the pride of LOMOND and marvellous KILLARNEY. Mr. CUMBERLAND in that ∫weet ode, repre∫ents him∫elf upon the banks of the lake of ULLS WATER, bemoaning him∫elf, and the hardne∫s of his fate, when the ∫un beaming forth, ble∫∫ed him with a full di∫play of all the beauties of this enchanting lake. In gratitude for ∫o ∫pecial a favour, in a true poetic rapture, he dedicates the charming ode to the God of Day, who∫e partiality to the lake of PATTERDALE he gratefully indulges in the following harmonious numbers. The navigators of this lake find much amu∫ement by di∫charging guns, or ∫mall  cannon, at certain ∫tations; the report is reverberated from rock to rock, promontory, cavern, and hill, with variety of ∫ound, dying away upon the ear, and again returning like peals of thunder, re-echoed ∫even times di∫tinctly. Oppo∫ite to WATER-MILLOCK is one of tho∫e ∫tations. The higher end of the lake is fourteen miles from PENRITH, and then from AMBLESIDE, good turnpike road, only at STAYBARROW-CRAG the road is cut into the rock that awfully overhangs it, and is too narrow. Above GOLDRILL-BRIDGE the vale becomes narrow and poor, the mountains ∫teep, naked, and rocky. Much blue ∫late of an excellent kind, is excavated out of their bowels. The a∫cent from the lake to the top of KIRKSTON is ea∫y; there are many water-falls from the mountains on both ∫ides. From the top of KIRKSTON to AMBLESIDE the de∫cent is quick. Some remarkable ∫tones near the gorge of the pa∫s are called HIGH-TROUGH. The only lake that remains to be vi∫ited in this cour∫e is This is a pretty morning ride from PENRITH, or it may be taken in the way to SHAP, or from SHAP and return to KENDAL. There is al∫o a road from POOLY-BRIDGE, over the mountain to PONTON vale, a beautiful ∫ecreted valley. A∫cending the road from POOLY-BRIDGE to the ∫outh, from the brow of the common, you have a grand general view of ULLS WATER, with all its winding ∫hore and accompanyments of woods, rocks, and mountains, bays and promontories, with all the flexures of ∫hore to the entrance of PATTERDALE. To the north ea∫t you look down on POOLY-BRIDGE, and the winding of the river guides the eye to a beautiful valley, much ornamented with plantations, in the mid∫t of which DALEMAIN is ∫eated, queen of the vale of EAMON. Turning ∫outh, proceed by WHITE-RAISE, a large karned of ∫tones; and near it, the remains of a ∫mall circus;  ten ∫tones are ∫till erect. A little further on are the ve∫tiges of a larger circus, of 22 paces by 25. All the ∫tones except the pillar, are removed; it ∫tands on the ∫outh ∫ide of the circus; the place is called DOVACK-MOOR. Here the vale of PONTON opens ∫weetly to the view, a∫cending to the ∫outh, and ∫preading upwards in variety of daleland beauty. At the bridge the road turns to the right, and ∫oon brings you upon HAWS WATER. Mr. YOUNG is the fir∫t that ∫ays any thing pretty of this ∫weet but unfrequented lake. "The approach to the lake is very picture∫que: You pa∫s between two high ridges of mountains, the banks finely ∫pread with inclo∫ures; upon the right two ∫mall beautiful hills, one of them covered with wood; they are mo∫t plea∫ingly elegant. The lake is a ∫mall one, about three miles long, half a mile over in ∫ome places, and a quarter in others; almo∫t divided in the middle by a promontory of inclo∫ures, joined only by a ∫trait, ∫o that it con∫i∫ts of two ∫heets of water. The upper end of it is fine, quite inclo∫ed with bold ∫teep craggy rocks and  mountains; and in the center of the end, a few little inclo∫ures at their feet, waving upward in a very beautiful manner. The ∫outh ∫ide of the lake is a noble ridge of mountains, very bold and prominent down to the water's edge. They bulge out in the center in a fine, bold, pendant broad head, that is venerably magnificent: And the view of the fir∫t ∫heet of the lake lo∫ing it∫elf in the ∫econd, among hills, rocks, woods, &c. is picture∫que. The oppo∫ite ∫hore con∫i∫ts of inclo∫ures ri∫ing one above another, and crowned with craggy rocks." The narrowe∫t part, by report, is 50 fathom deep, and a man can throw a ∫tone acro∫s it. THWAITE-FORCE or fall, is a fine cataract on the right, and oppo∫ite to it, the fir∫t ∫heet of water is lo∫t among the rocks and wood, in a beautiful manner. BLEAK-HOW-CRAG, a ruinous rock, and over it, CASTLE-CRAG, a ∫taring ∫hattered rok, have a formidable appearance; and above all KIDSEY-PIKE, on who∫e ∫ummit the clouds weep into a crater of rock, that is never dry. On the ea∫tern ∫ide a front of prominent rock bulges out in a ∫olemn  naked ma∫s, and a waving cataract de∫cends the furrow ∫ide of a ∫oft green hill; the contra∫t is fine. At BLEAK-HOW-CRAG there is a fine back view. Above the chapel all is hopele∫s wa∫te and de∫olation. The little vale contracts into a glen, ∫trewed with the precipitated ruins of mouldring mountains, and the de∫truction of water-falls. KENDAL is fourteen miles from the chapel, and whoever chu∫es an Alpine ride may proceed to it up this vale. From the chapel to the top of the mountain, three miles; de∫cent into LONGSLEDALE is as much more. In approaching the mountain, HARTER-FELL ∫couls forward in all the terrific grandeur of hanging rock. As you approach it, a yawning cha∫m appears to divide it upwards from the ba∫e, and within it, is heard the hoar∫e noi∫e of ingulphed waters; the harmony of cataracts and water-falls on all ∫ides, add much to the ∫olemnity of the tremendous ∫cenes. The path ∫oon becomes winding, steep, and narrow, and is the only po∫∫ible one acro∫s  the mountain. A roaring cataract on the left accompanies you during the a∫cent. On the ∫ummit of the mountain, you can come in ∫ight of LONGSLEDALE, LANCASTER ∫ands, &c, and will pre∫ently be accompanied with a cataract, on the right, in the cour∫e of the de∫cent. The road traver∫es the mountain as on the other ∫ide, but is much better made, and wider, on account of the ∫late, taken from the ∫ides of the∫e mountains, and carried to KENDAL, &c. The water-falls on the right are extremely curious. You enter LONGSLEDALE between two ∫hattered rocky mountains; that on the left, CROWBARROW, is not le∫s terrible to look up at, when under it, than any rock in BARROWSIDE or BORROWDALE, and has covered a much larger ∫pace with ruins. Here is all the po∫∫ible variety of water-falls and cataracts; the mo∫t remarkable is on the left; over a mo∫t tremendous wall of rock, a mountain torrent, in one unbroken ∫heet, leaps headlong one hundred yards, and more. The whole vale is narrow; the the hills ri∫e ∫wift on each hand, their brows are wooded, their feet covered with gra∫s, or cultivated, their ∫ummits broken. The  road along the vale is tolerable, and joins the great road at WATCH-YATE, about four miles from KENDAL. HAWS WATER may be taken fir∫t in the morning, and then cro∫s the mountain by the road to POOLY-BRIDGE for ULLS WATER, and return in the evening to So much is already ∫aid of this ∫weet town that nothing remains new to be added here. The ∫ituation is plea∫ant, open to the ∫outh. It is tolerably well built, and rather a genteel than a trading town. The town's people are civil, the inns commodious and well ∫erved; the company are polite and communicative to ∫trangers. Be∫ide the few re∫ident families, the life of this town is, the being a thorough-fare for travellers; for although it be ∫eated in the mid∫t of a rich and fruitful country, no manufacturers have been induced to fix here. Before the intere∫t of the ∫i∫ter kingdoms  became one, PENRITH was a place of uncertain tranquility, and too precarious for the repo∫e of trade and manual indu∫try; being better circum∫tanced for a place of arms and military exerci∫e. Yet ∫ince the happy change of ∫pirit, no more than one branch of tanning, and a ∫mall manufacture of checks have taken place. Thi mu∫t be owing to want of attention in the people of property; or of indu∫try in the inhabitants; the latter is not to be ∫uppo∫ed, for the ∫pirit of agriculture, introduced by the gentlemen of the environs, is in as flouri∫hing a way among∫t the farmers of this neighbourhood, as in other parts of the kingdom. The ∫uperfluities of the market are brought up for KENDAL, where much of that is wanting which ∫uperabounds here. The mo∫t remarkable objects here are the beacon, on the ∫ummit of the hill above the town, and the awful remains of a royal forte∫s, on the cre∫t of the ri∫ing ground that commands the town. It is ∫uppo∫ed to be an erection of HENRY VI. out of the ruins of a much more ancient ∫tructure called MAYBURGH, but this is not very probable;  ∫ince ∫tones are ea∫ier quarried here than they could be got there. But as popular records have always ∫ome fact to re∫t upon, and truth in the bottom, ∫o ∫ome facings and other principal ∫tones being taken from MAYBURGH, gave ri∫e to the tradition; there might al∫o have been a ∫trong hold here in the time of the ROMANS. At pre∫ent the buildings are ruins in the la∫t ∫tage. One ∫tone arched vault remains, that from its ∫ituation, has been the keep, no longer terrible ∫ince the border ∫ervice cea∫ed, and the mutual intercour∫e of trade and alliance happily taken place of national repri∫als, and family feuds. The antiquity of this town is ∫uppo∫ed to be found in its name, being of Briti∫h derivation, from PEN and RHUDD, ∫ignifying, in that language, a red head or hill, and ∫uch is the colour of the hill above the town, and the ground and ∫tones around it. But, with re∫pect to ∫ituation, it may as well be derived from PEN, the head, and RHYN, a promontory, and ∫o be referred to the beacon hill. But it may be judged a more honourable etymon to derive the name from PEN and  RHYDD, of RHYDDAU to make free, and that on account of ∫pecial ∫ervice or fidelity to the Roman government, the BRITONS of this town were emancipated from the abject ∫lavery, that the nation in general were ∫ubjected to by their tyrannical ma∫ters; and on that occa∫ion the town was made free, and the inhabitants were honoured with the title of principal free-men, which they tran∫lated into their own language by PENRHYDD, and was pronounced by the BRITONS, as by the WELCH at this day, PENRITH. It has been the happine∫s of this town to remain a royal franchi∫e through all the ages of feudal ∫ervitude, at lea∫t ∫ince the reign of EDWARD I. without the incumbrance of a charter, and is peaceably governed by the ∫teward of the honours, and a free jury. The honours of both town and ca∫tle belong to the truly noble Duke of PORTLAND. In the churchyard are ∫ome ∫epulchral monuments, which have long been the ∫ubject of antiquarian ∫peculation, not yet decided. Thus much is evident that the pillars are of one ∫tone, formed like the ancient ∫pears; the ∫hafts round for about ∫even feet high; above that,  they appear to be ∫quare, and to have terminated in a point. They are about ten feet high, ∫tand parallel with the church, di∫tant from each other fifteen feet, the ∫pace between is inclo∫ed with circular ∫tones, by ∫ome conjectured to repre∫ent boars. There remains vi∫ible, on the upper part of the pillars, ∫ome ornamental work, but no in∫cription or figures appear at present, and the ∫tones are ∫o much fretted by time, that it re∫ts upon meer conjecture to affirm there ever were any ∫uch. They probably mark the tomb of ∫ome great man, or family, before the cu∫tom was introduced of interring within churches, and are probably Briti∫h, or mu∫t be Saxon. There are many plea∫ing rides in the environs of PENRITH; mo∫t of them lead to curious remains, of ancient monuments, or modern improvements. In WHINFIELD-PARK are the COUNTE∫-PILLAR, the WHITE-HART-TREE, and the THREE-BROTHER-TREE. The fir∫t is a filial tribute of ANN Counte∫s Dowager of PEMBROKE, to the memory of her pious mother, MARY Counte∫s Dowager of CUMBERLAND; the others  are the remains of aged oak, that have long outlived their own ∫trength; one of them is upwards of nine yards in circumference. BROUGHAM ca∫tle is an awful ruin, the BROVONIACUM of the ROMANS, and ∫ince that the bulwark of WESTMORLAND on that ∫ide, and the pride of its earls, for many de∫cents. In a gallery overhead, is a ∫tone with a Roman ∫epulchral in∫cription, much defaced. At LITTLE-SALKELD is the large∫t druidical circle in the northern parts. Near EAMONT-BRIDGE is ARTHUR'S ROUND-TABLE and at a ∫mall di∫tance from it, is MAYBOROUGH, both of remote antiquity, and doubtful u∫e. The fir∫t may be pre∫umed to have been a place of public exhibition for martial exerci∫es, and the latter has the conditions of a Briti∫h fort; but the rude pillar inclines ∫ome to believe it the remains of a druid temple. It is entirely formed of loo∫e ∫tones and pebbles, collected from the adjacent rivers and fields; that the height has once been great, may be collected from the va∫t breadth of the ba∫e, encrea∫ed by the fall of ∫tones from the top; it inclo∫es a circular area of 80 yards of more, and near the middle ∫tands  a red ∫tone, upwards of three yards high; the entrance is on the ea∫tern ∫ide, and opens to a ∫weet view of BROUGHAM HOUSE, to which the rude pillar, when whitened, (and of this Mr. BROUGHAM is very careful,) is a fine obeli∫k. If the name of this very extraordinary monument was BREIN-GWIN, then Mr. PENNANT, from ROWLAND, has pointed out the u∫e of "a ∫upreme con∫i∫tory of druidical admini∫tration, as the Briti∫h name imports." But if the pre∫ent name be a Saxon corruption of the ancient name, which probably was MYFIRION, by the SAXONS pronounced MAYBIRION, or MAYBIR, and to bring it ∫till nearer to their own language, MAYBOROUGH; then this conjecture being admitted, it will ∫ignify a place of ∫tudy and contemplation. Such places the druids had, and were the public ∫chools de∫tined for the colloquial in∫truction of pupils in my∫teries of religion, and the arcana of civil government. Druidical remains are frequent in this neighbourhood, many of them are analogous, but MAYBOROUGH is ∫uch a ∫tupendous con∫truction, that it mu∫t have been de∫igned for ∫ome extraordinary u∫e. From the beacon the views are many, all exten∫ive and va∫t: The eye is in the center of a plane inclo∫ed with a circle of ∫tupendous mountains of various forms, and awful heights. The plane it∫elf is adorned with many ancient towns, and more ancient ca∫tles, ∫tations, and ca∫tellums, where the Roman eagle long di∫played her wings; but in the∫e more happy days is po∫∫e∫∫ed by a happier people, who enjoy, with freedom, their plea∫ant ∫eats, and charming man∫ions, that meet the eye which ever way the head is turned, marked with all the refinements of liberal ta∫te, and flouri∫hing indu∫try. HAWS WATER my be conveniently vi∫ited from PENRITH, returning from it by the ruins of SHAP or HEPPE abbey to SHAP. The remains of this abbey are incon∫iderable, yet picture∫que; a ∫quare tower with piked windows is the chief part of the ruins, and does honour to the reign of King JOHN, when it was built, for canons to the prœmon∫traten∫ian order, that had been fir∫t placed near PRESTON-PATRICK in KENDAL, by THOMAS, ∫on of GOSPATRICK. This abbey was dedicated by the fir∫t founded to St. MARY MAGDALENE, and he endowed it with a large portion of his lands, in PRESTON in KENDAL. His ∫on tran∫lated it to MAGDALENE vale, near SHAP, and further endowed it with the lands of KAROL, or KARLWATH. ROBERT DE VETERIPONT (VIPONT) fir∫t Lord of WESTMORLAND, confirmed the precedent grants, and added to that of MATILDA his mother, and IVE his brother, the tithes of all his mills, and of game killed in his lands, in WESTMORLAND. This grant is dated on Saturday April 24th, 13th of King JOHN. From this ∫eque∫tered ∫pot continue the rout to the village of SHAP, a proper place for refre∫hment before you face SHAP fells, a dready melancholy tract of twelve miles. On the ea∫t ∫ide of the road, ∫oon after you leave the village, ob∫erve a double range of huge granites, pitched in the ground, and at ∫ome di∫tance from each other, leading to circles of ∫mall ∫tones, and encrea∫ing the ∫pace between the rows as they approach the circles, where the avenue is about 27 paces wide. They are ∫uppo∫ed to have run quite  through the village, and terminated in a point. It has long embarra∫∫ed the antiquaties, what to call this very uncommon monument of ancient chronology; Mr. PENNANT has given a plau∫ible explanation of it from OLAUS MAGNUS, and ∫uppo∫es them to be the recording ∫tones of a Dani∫h victory obtained on the ∫pot, and the ∫tony circles to be the grateful tribute to the memory of con∫anguineous heroes ∫lain in the action. There is at a ∫mall di∫tance to the east from the∫e ∫tones a ∫pring, called SHAP-SPAW, in ∫mell and ta∫te like that of HARROWGATE, much frequented by the people of the country for ∫corbutic complaints, and erruptions of the ∫kin. Leaving behind you this gloomy region of black moors and ∫hapele∫s mountains, approach a charming vale, which Mr. YOUNG in his elegant manner de∫cribes thus, "After cro∫∫ing this dreary tract, the fir∫t appearance of a good country is mo∫t exqui∫itly fine; about three miles from KENDAL, you at once look down from off this  de∫olate country upon one of the fine∫t land∫capes in the world; a noble range of fertile inclo∫ures richly enamelled with mo∫t beautiful verdure: And coming to the brow of the hill have a mo∫t elegant picture∫que view of a variegated tract of waving inclo∫ures, ∫preading over hills, and hanging to the eye in the mo∫t picture∫que and plea∫ing manner that fancy can conceive. Three hills in particular are overlooked, cut into inclo∫ures in a charming ∫tile, of them∫elves forming a mo∫t elegant land∫cape, and worthy the imitation of tho∫e who would give the embelli∫hments of art to the ∫implicity of nature." The ∫tation from whence this de∫cription is taken, is about the midway between the third and fourth mile-∫tone, on the top of a rock on the ea∫t ∫ide of the road, called STONE-CRAG, which cannot be mi∫taken. The three hills referred to in the de∫cription, are on the near ground of the land∫cape. There are many beautiful hills and knowls ∫cattered about the valley; ∫ome cultivated, others covered with wood, or ∫hining in the ∫ofte∫t verdure. But the mo∫t remarkable  for picture∫que form, is an oval green hill crowned with the ruins of a ca∫tle; it divides the valley, and overlooks a town hanging on the ∫ide of a ∫teep mountain, this is The approach to it from the north is plea∫ant, a noble river, the KENT, is di∫covered flowing bri∫kly through the fertile fields, and vi∫iting the town in its whole length; it is cro∫∫ed by a bridge more venerable than hand∫ome, where three great roads coincide, from SEDBERCH, KIRKBY STEPHEN, and PENRITH. The main ∫treet leading from the bridge ∫lopes upwards to the center of the town, and contracts it∫elf to an inconvenient pa∫∫age, where it joins another principal ∫treet, which falls with a gentle declivity both ways, is a mile in length and of a ∫pacious breadth. Was an area for a market-place opened at the incident of the∫e two streets, it would give the town a noble appearance. The entrance from the ∫outh is by another bridge, which makes a ∫hort awkward turn into the ∫uburbs, after that  the ∫treet opens well, and the town has a chearful appearance. In this town is a workhou∫e for the poor, which for neatne∫s and œconomy, exceeds mo∫t of the kind in the kingdom. The inns are genteel and commodious, plentifully ∫erved, and the u∫age civil. The objects mo∫t worthy of notice are the manufactures: The chief of the∫e are of the Kendal-cottons, a coar∫e woolen cloth; of the lin∫eys; of knit wor∫ted ∫tockings; and a con∫iderable tannery. The le∫∫er manufacturers are, of wa∫te ∫ilk, which is received from LONDON, and after ∫couring, combing, and ∫pinning, is returned; of wool cards, in which branch con∫iderable improvements have been made by the curious machines invented here; and of fi∫h-hooks. There are other articles of indu∫try well-worth ∫eeing; the mills for ∫couring, fulling, and frizing cloth, for cutting and ra∫ping wood dying wood, &c. But what is mo∫t to the credit of this place is, that notwith∫tanding ∫everal con∫iderable inconveniences, which this town has ever laboured under,  the manufactures have all along continued to flouri∫h; and are particularly noticed ∫o early as the reign of King RICHARD II. and HENRY IV. when ∫pecial laws were enacted for the better regulation of the KENDAL cloths; and have of late years been greatly encrea∫ed by the ∫pirit and indu∫try of the inhabitants. When WILLIAM the conqueror gave the barony of KENDAL to IVO DE TAILLEBOIS, the inhabitants of KENDAL were the villain-tenants of the baronial lord; but one of his ∫ucce∫∫ors emancipated them, and confirmed their burgages to them by charter. Queen ELIZABETH in the 18th year of her reign erected it into a corporation, by the name of aldermen and burgages; and afterwards King JAMES I. incorporated it with a mayor, 12 aldermen and 24 burge∫∫es. Mr. GRAY's de∫cription of this town is equally injurious to it and his memory; but of the church and ca∫tle he is pointed. "Near the end of the town ∫tands a hand∫ome hou∫e of Colonel WILSON's, and adjoining to it, the church, a very large gothic  fabric, with a ∫quare tower; it has no particular ornaments, but double i∫les, and at the ea∫t end four chapels or choirs." Mr. GRAY's account then proceeds to the in∫ide of the church, which he de∫cribes with his u∫ual accuracy and ea∫e. Speaking of the chapels, "one of PARRS, another of STRICKLANDS, the third is the proper choir of the church, and the fourth of the BELLINGHAMS, a family now extinct. [The BELLINGHAMS came into WESTMORLAND before the reign of HENRY VII. and where ∫eated at BURNESIDE. In the reign of King HENRY VIII. ADAM BELLINGHAM purcha∫ed of the King the 20th part of a knights fee in HELSINGTON, parcel of the po∫∫e∫∫ion of HENRY Duke of RICHMOND, and of Sir JOHN LUMLEY (LORD LUMLEY) which his father THOMAS BELLINGHAM had farmed of the crown, he was ∫ucceeded by his ∫on JAMES BELLINGHAM, who erected the tomb, in the BELLINGHAM's chapel.] There is an alter tomb of one of them (viz ADAM BELLINGHAM) dated 1577 with a flat bra∫s arms and quarterings; and in the window of their arms alone, argent, a hunting-horn ∫able, ∫trung gules. In the STRIKLAND's chapel are ∫everal modern monuments,  and another old alter tomb, not belonging to the family: On the ∫ide of it a fe∫s dancette between two billets deincourt, [this tomb is probably of RALPH D'AINCOURT, who in the reign of King JOHN married HELEN, daugher of ANSELM DE FURNE∫, who∫e daughter and ∫ole heir ELIZABETH D'AINCOURT was married to WILLIAM, ∫on and heir of Sir ROBERT DE STIRKLAND, of great STIRKLAND, knight, 23d of HENRY III. the ∫on and heir was WALTER DE STRIKLAND, who lived in the reign of EDWARD I. was po∫∫e∫ed of the fortunes of ANSELM DE FURNE∫ and D'AINCOURT in WESTMORLAND, and erected the above tomb, to the memory of his grandfather RALPH D'AINCOURT. The de∫cendants of the ∫aid WALTER DE STRIKLAND have lived at SIZERGH, in this neighbourhood ever ∫ince, and this chapel is the family burial place.] In PARR's chapel is  a third alter tomb in the corner, no figure or in∫cription, but on the ∫ide, cut in ∫tone, an e∫cutcheon of Ross of KENDAL, three water-budgets, quartering PARR, two bars in a bordure engrailed, 2dly, an e∫cutcheon, vaire, a fe∫s for marmion; 3dly, an e∫cutcheon, three chevronels braced, and  a chief, which I take for FITZHUGH: At the foot is an e∫cutcheon, ∫urrounded with the garter, bearing RO∫ and PARR quarterly, quartering the other two beforementioned. I have no books to look in, therefore cannot lay whether this is Lord PARR of KENDAL, Queen CATHERINE's father, or her brother the Marquis of NORTHAMPTON. Perhaps it is a cenotaph for the latter who was buried at WARWICK, 1571." The ca∫tle he de∫cribes thus. "The remains, with four towers, two ∫quare and two round, but their upper part and embattlements are demoli∫hed: It is a rough ∫tone and cement, without any ornament or arms, round, inclo∫ing a court of the lake form, and ∫urrounded by a moat; nor ever could it have been larger then it is, for there are no traces of out-works. There is a good view of the town and river, with a fertile open valley through which it winds." Had Mr. GRAY a∫cended to the ca∫tle, which was the only way to it when in its glory, and is the  ea∫ie∫t at pre∫ent, he would have ob∫erved a ∫quare area that had been fortified with a deep moat, and connected to the ca∫tle by a draw-bridge, where was probably the ba∫e-court; the ∫tones now are entirely removed and the ground leveled, "and laughing CERES rea∫∫umes the land." The pre∫ent ∫tructure was undoubtedly rai∫ed by the fir∫t barons of KENDAL and probably on the ruins of the Roman ∫tation; this being the mo∫t eligible ∫ite in the country for a ∫ummer encampment, and at a ∫mall di∫tance from WATER-CROOK. There are ∫till ∫ome remains of a dark red free∫tone u∫ed in facings, and in the doors and windows, that has been brought from the environs of PENRITH, more probably by the ROMANS, then either the Saxon or Norman lords. Fame ∫ays this ca∫tle held out again∫t OLIVER CROMWELL, and was battered from the CASTLE-LAW-HILL, but this is not ∫o probably, a that its pre∫ent ruinous ∫tate is owing to the jealou∫y of the u∫urper. There is a mo∫t plea∫ant morning ride of five miles, own the ea∫t ∫ide of the river, WATER-CROOK is one mile di∫tant on the  right, clo∫e by the ∫ide of the KENT. This is the CONCANGIUM of the ROMANS, where a body of the VIGILATORES, watchmen, kept guard, and was the intermediate ∫tation betwixt the DICTIS at AMBLESIDE, and the garri∫on at OVERBOROUGH; the line of the fo∫s may be ∫till traced, though much defaced by the plough; alters, coins, and in∫cribed ∫tones have been found here, and in the wall of the barn, on the very area of the ∫tation, is ∫till legible the in∫cription, pre∫erved by Mr. HORSLEY  to the memory of two freed-men with an imprecation again∫t any one who ∫hould contaminate their ∫epulchre, with a fine to the fi∫cal. There is al∫o an alter without an in∫cription, and a SILENUS without a head. At a ∫mall di∫tance is a pyramidal knowl crowned with a ∫ingle tree called SATTURY, where ∫omething dedicated to the God SATURN has ∫tood. Pa∫s through the village of NATLAND; on the cre∫t of a green hill on the left, called HELM are the ve∫tiges of a ca∫tellum called CASTLE-STEADS, which corre∫ponded, by ∫moke in the day and flame in the night, with the garri∫on at LANCASTER, by the beacon on WARTON-CRAG, during the re∫idence of the watchmen at WATER-CROOK.  There is a hou∫e at a di∫tance to the north, called WATH-HOUSE, where Roman coins have been found. Proceed through SIGISWICK, and fall in with the cour∫e of the river at FORCE-BRIDGE, and from the crown of it have a very ∫ingular romantic view both ways of the river, working its way in a narrow deep channel of rocks, hanging over it in a variety of forms, ∫treaming a thou∫and limpid rills into the flood. The rocks in the bottom are ∫trangely excavated into deep holes of various ∫hapes, that when the river is low remain full of water; from its depth, black as ink. The bridge is one bold arch ∫u∫pended by the oppo∫ite rocks, its antiquity unknown; a mantle of ivy vails its ancient front, and gives it a mo∫t venerable appearance. If you ride down the we∫t ∫ide of the river from the bridge, as far as the forge, to ∫ee the water-fall of the whole river, its ∫tream is much impaired in beauty ∫ince the forge was erected. But if from the end of the uppermo∫t hou∫e, you will look up between two trees in the mid∫t of the channel you will ∫ee the whole body of the river i∫∫uing from a ∫able cavern, and  tumbling over a rock of height ju∫t ∫ufficient to convert into froth as white as ∫now, and behind it, the arch of the bridge is partly catched in a di∫po∫ition that forms a very uncommon a∫∫emblage of picture∫que beauties. This is ∫een in highe∫ŧ perfection when the ∫tream is full. Return to the bridge, and ride down the ea∫t ∫ide of the river to LEVINS-PARK. If you are not provided with a key from KENDAL, the keep mu∫t be applied to. Here is one of the ∫weete∫t ∫pots that fancy can imagine; the woods, the rocks, the river, the grounds, are rivals in beauty of ∫tile, and variety of contra∫t. The bends of the river, the bulging of rocks over it, under which in ∫ome places it retires in ha∫te, and again breaks out in a calm and ∫preading ∫tream, are matchle∫s beauties. The grounds in places are bold and hang to the river, or fall into gentle ∫lopes, and decline into ea∫y plains; all is variety with plea∫ing tran∫ition. Thickets cover the brows, ancient thorns, and more ancient oaks are ∫cattered over the plain, and clumps, and ∫olitary beach trees of enormous  ∫ize, equal, if not ∫urpa∫s any thing the CHILTERN HILLS can boa∫t. The park is well ∫tocked with fallow-deer. The ∫ide of the KENT is famous for petrifying ∫prings, that incru∫t vegetable bodies, as mo∫s, leaves of trees, &c. There is one in the park, called the dropping well. At a ∫mall distance is HINCASTER, where the ROMANS had a camp, and from the name the BRITONS have called it the old camp. Within the park is KIRKS-HEAD, mentioned by CAMDEN as a place frequented by the ROMANS, yet nothing of late belonging to that people has been di∫covered at either place. LEVINS-HOUSE, was the ∫eat of a family of that name for many ages, then of REDMAN for many de∫cernts, afterwards it came to BELLINGHAM, and ADAM, or his ∫on JAMES BELLINGHAM gave it the pre∫ent form in the reign of Queen ELIZABETH, and in ta∫te of carvings in wood attempted to outdo his contemporary, WALTER STRIKLAND of SIZERGH E∫q; after BELLINGHAM it came to Colonel GRAHAM, and from his daughter by marriage to the ance∫tor of the pre∫ent noble po∫∫e∫∫or. Return by LEVENS-BRIDGE to KENDAL, five miles. Have a new view of the valley, and the ea∫t ∫ide of KENT; at  the park-gate have a charming view of SIZERGH, ∫hewing it∫elf to the morning ∫un, and appearing to advantage from an elevated ∫ite under a bold and wooded back-ground. The tower was built in the reign of HENRY III. or EDWARD I. by Sir WILLIAM STIRKLANDM, who had married ELIZABETH the general heir of RALPH D'AINCOURT. This is evident from an e∫cutcheon cut in ∫tone on the we∫t ∫ide of the tower, and hung cornerwi∫e, D'AINCOURT quartering STIRKLAND, three e∫calop ∫hells, the cre∫t on a clo∫e helmet a full topt holly-bu∫h. The ∫ame are the arms of the family at this time, and this has been their chief re∫idence ever ∫ince. Before you leave KENDAL vi∫it the CASTLE-LAW-HILL; this is an artificial mount, that overlooks the town and faces the ca∫tle, and ∫urpa∫∫es it in antiquity, being one of tho∫e hills called LAWS, where in ancient times di∫tributive ju∫tice was admini∫tered. From its pre∫ent appearance it ∫eems to have been converted to different purpo∫es, but though well ∫ituated as a watch upon the ca∫tle, could never be a proper place to batter it from, as the report goes. To LANCASTER, by BURTON, 22 miles, ob∫erve before you reach BURTON, FARLETON-KNOT, a naked towering rocky mountain, ∫aid to re∫emble much in form the rock of GIBRALTER. Between BURTON and LANCASTER, ∫ee DUNALD-MILL-HOUSE, a ∫ubterraneous cavern, a river running through it, with many curious petrifactions, in ∫tile like those in DERBYSHIRE, and of the ∫ame kind. Finis chartÆque viÆque. The∫e la∫t three Mountains are never without Snow. Heights above the level of the Ocean. From the ∫urvey of mountains it appears that SNOWDON is the highe∫t in SOUTH BRITAIN, yet below the point of permanent ∫now. It has been ob∫erved by the FRENCH academicians, that among∫t the CORDILIERAS, in the province of QUITO, PETCHINCHA, and CARASON are the highe∫t acce∫∫ible mountains, and that all of greater height are ve∫ted with eternal ∫now. On the GLACIERS ∫now is permanent at a much inferior height, and where the ∫un's rays fall more oblique, le∫s height is found the boundary between temporary and eternal ∫now. But no mountain in SOUTH BRITAIN touches the region of barrene∫s, that intervenes between the limits of vegetation and perpetual ∫now. Sheep pa∫ture the ∫ummits of ∫haggy SNOWDON, green HELVELLYN, and purple SKIDDAW: Barrene∫s only prevails where rock and precipice, the invincible ob∫tacles to vegetation, oppo∫e themselves. Page 17 line 19 for Lonovices, read Longovices. p.21 l.I for fran, r. front. p.27 l. 13 for amaple, r. ample. p.31 l.3 for appearing, r. appears in. p.44 l.16 for fore-ground, r. far ground. p.45 l. 2 for upper end, r. At the upper end. p.47 l.2 r. is at the other end. p.48 l.18 for wonderful, r. wonderfully. p.52 l.2 for conceal, r. concealed. p.58 l.1 for it, r. in. p.61 l.7 for form, r. from. p.85 l.21 for falanches, r. avelenches. p.86 l.6 r. noble∫t pa∫toral ∫tile. p. 96 l.17 dele and the rectory of Cro∫thwaite. p.117 l.21 for variegating r. vegetating. p.140 l.17 r. and Mellbreak, two ∫piral hills. p.141 l.18 for ∫evated. r. ∫errated. p.177 l.18, for Penri∫h, r. Penrith. p. 188 l.11 for Strikland, r. Stirkland. 