FROM Glenwelt to Brampton, I pa∫∫ed over ∫ome moors of an excellent ∫andy loam, and yet quite uncultivated. The inclo∫ed lands are good, lett from 10s. to 25s.  per  acre, farms from 10l. to 100l.  At Carli∫le is a con∫iderable ∫tampery of printed cottons, e∫tabli∫hed by ∫ome manufacturers from Newca∫tle; the labourers in it earn from 1s. to 3s. a day. Al∫o a manufacture of checks, which employs many looms; the earnings from 1s. to 1s. 3d. a day.  Three miles to the ∫outh of Carli∫le, land letts about 15s. an acre at an average. Farms from 20l. to 200l. a year. In as many more, they are not ∫o large, from 30l. to 120l. and rents from 2s. to 20s. an acre.  About High A∫cot the ∫oil varies from a light loam and gravel to a clay, letts from 10s. to 20s. an acre.  Farms from 10l. to 100l. a year. The cour∫es are,  And,  For wheat they plough three or four times, ∫ow three bu∫hels and reap about twenty. For barley they plough twice, ∫ow three bu∫hels, and reckon the average produce the ∫ame as of wheat. They ∫tir but once for oats, ∫ow ∫even bu∫hels and an half, and gain fifty in return. For pea∫e they likewi∫e plough but once, ∫ow three bu∫hels, and gain at a medium fifteen. They ∫tir twice or thrice for rye, ∫ow three bu∫hels, generally in February or March, (a very remarkable time,) and reap twenty. They cultivate ∫ome few turneps; plough three or four times for them; a few farmers hoe them: The medium value they reckon at 50s. an acre; and u∫e them for cattle and ∫heep. Clover they ∫ow with barley or oats, generally mow it for hay, and get about a ton at a mowing.  For potatoes they plough thrice, give the land a good coat of dung; chu∫e the drye∫t ∫oils for them; and lay the ∫lices in every other furrow, one foot from plant to plant. On coming up they plough between the rows, to de∫troy the weeds; a practi∫e one would ∫uppo∫e ∫ufficient to introduce a good turnep culture univer∫ally; for tho∫e who ∫ee the effects of this operation on potatoes might ∫urely extend the idea to turneps. -- They get 300 bu∫hels per acre, and ∫ow rye after them.  Good gra∫s letts at 20s. an acre; they apply it chiefly to dairying, and reckon that an acre and a half will feed a cow through the ∫ummer; and an acre carry four ∫heep: Very few of them manure their gra∫s. Their breed of cattle is the long horned, which they account much the be∫t. Their bea∫ts they fatten to about forty ∫tone.  The product of a cow they reckon at 50s. or 3l. that a middling one will give from two to four gallons of milk a day, and make from four to ∫even pounds of butter a week. They have no notion of keeping hogs in con∫equence of cows; a dairy of twenty not maintaining above one or two. The winter food of their cows is∫traw or hay, a ton and a half of which is the quantity they commonly ∫uppo∫e a cow to eat in the winter; but if clover hay is u∫ed, one ton is enough. -- The ∫ummer joi∫t is 25s. and that of winter 30s. and 35s. They reckon ten cows the bu∫ine∫s of a dairy maid.  Their flocks of ∫heep ri∫e from 20 to 120, and the profit they reckon at 6s. a head; lamb 5s. and wool 1s. They keep them the year round on the commons: -- The average weight of fleeces 4lb.  In the management of their arable lands they reckon ∫ix hor∫es nece∫∫ary for 100 acres of arable; they u∫e two in a plough, and do an acre a day. The annual expence of keeping hor∫es they reckon at 5l.  10s. or 6l. The joi∫t in ∫ummer 40s. in winter 50s. They break up their ∫tubbles for a fallow in February; plough ∫ix inches deep: The price of ploughing 5s. an acre; and of a cart and hor∫e and driver 2s. or 3s. a day. They know nothing of cutting ∫traw for chaff.  Three hundred pounds they reckon nece∫∫ary for a man to ∫tock a farm of 100l. a year.  Tythes are generally gathered. Poor rates 6d. in the pound; the employment of the women and children ∫pinning and knitting.  The farmers carry their corn nine miles.  The general oeconomy will appear from the following ∫ketches of farms.  Another, Another, Another, Another, About Penrith there are variations, which de∫erve noting -- The ∫oil is of divers ∫orts, clay, ∫and, gravel, loam, and black moory earth. The medium rent of that inclo∫ed is 15s. the uninclo∫ed, 2s. 6d. and 3s. 6d. Farms ri∫e from 10l. a year, ∫o high as 700l. but in general from 80l. to 150l. Their cour∫es are, Another, This is capital indeed! but very common; for much land, even within two or three miles of Penrith, hath been ∫own every year with either barley, oats, or pea∫e, for the∫e ∫eventy years. This information a∫tonished me; I inquired the produce on ∫uch land, and found it reckoned as good, upon the whole, as other ∫oils, managed upon more modern principles; five or ∫ix for one of oats, and when wheat happens to be ∫own, ten or eleven for one. Fallowing is a new fa∫hion, and not perfectly reli∫hed by the new farmers yet. In a common way they generally plough for wheat from three to ∫ix times, ∫ow two bu∫hels about Michaelmas, and gain, upon an average, about three quarters. For barley they plough from once to thrice, ∫ow two bu∫hels and a half in April or May, and gain about 25. Sometimes barley is ∫own on new broke up land, and the produce 50 bu∫hels. They give but one ∫tirring for oats, ∫ow four bu∫hels before barley ∫owing, and get 28 in return. For pea∫e they give but one earth, ∫ow two bu∫hels, and get in return about 16; generally u∫e the greyrouncivals. They give from three to five ploughings for rye, ∫ow two bu∫hels, the crop about 24. For turneps they give three or four earths, never hoe, and reckon the average value per acre at 50s. u∫e them for ∫heep, and fatting of bea∫ts. Clover they ∫ow with either barley or oats, generally mow it once, (three times have been known,) and get two ton of hay per mowing. They prepare for potatoes by ploughing twice or thrice; dung the land with long hor∫e dung; lay the ∫etts in every other furrow, ten inches a∫under, and hand-hoe between them if weedy; ∫ometimes they hor∫e-hoe them: If the land is de∫igned for wheat, they lime it about Midsummer, while the potatoes are growing. The crops ri∫e to 200 bu∫hels per acre, but the average about 120; price about 2 s. a bu∫hel. Lime is their principal manure, though but of a few years ∫tanding: They lay 90 bu∫hels per acre on their arable lands; co∫ts them from 1 ½ d. to 3d. per bu∫hel, be∫ides leading; they lay it on every fallow: They likewise u∫e it on their meadows, and find it to an∫wer well. But dung they reckon much better for everything.They pare and burn a little, at the expence of 24 s. an acre. No folding ∫heep, nor chopping ∫tubbles. Stack their hay in buildings. Good gra∫s letts from 15s. to 20s. an acre: They u∫e it both for dairying and fatting bea∫ts; reckon that an acre will ∫ummer feed a cow, or feed five ∫heep. Their breed of cattle the long horned, which they think much the be∫t; their oxen they fat to about 40 ∫tone. The product of a cow they calculate at 4l. 10s. and generally have two firkins of butter from each: the medium quantiy per week about 7lb. but ∫ometimes 14lb. per cow. Thet keep but few ∫wine in proportion to their dairies, not above two to ten cows. The winter food is ∫traw and hay; of the latter about a ton a head. They reckon a dairy maid can manage ten cows. 25 or 30s. the ∫ummer joi∫t. In winter they keep them all in the hou∫e. They reckon 3l. the profit on ∫ummer fatting a bea∫t of fifty ∫tone. Swine fat from 50s. to 4l. 4s. a head. Their flocks of ∫heep vary greatly; from 40 to 3000: The profit they reckon 5s. each; that is, lamb 4s. and wool 1s.They feed them both winter and ∫pring on the commons. The average of the fleeces 3lb. Thet reckon ∫ix hor∫es nece∫∫ary for the management of 100 acres of arable land; u∫e two or four in a plough, as the ∫oil is, and do three acres in two days. They account the expence of keeping a hor∫e at 6l. a year. The ∫ummer joi∫t 2l. 2s. They do not begin to fallow till after the barley ∫owing. The price per acre of ploughing 5s. and 5s. 6d. and the common depth four inches. They know nothing of cutting ∫traw for chaff. The hire of a one hor∫e cart 2s. 6d. a day. Three hundred pounds they a∫∫ert is a ∫um ∫ufficient for ∫tocking a farm of 100l. a year. Land ∫ells in general at about thirty years purcha∫e. Tythes in general gathered. Poor rates at Penrith 1s. 3d. in the pound. In the country pari∫hes 6d. and upwards, but in ∫ome nothing at all. The employment of the women and children ∫pinning, and ∫ome knitting: All drink tea. Many e∫tates from 40l. to 200l. a year. The corn is generally brought to Penrith, and ∫ent to Kendal by carriers. The following are particulars of ∫everal farms. Another, Another, Another, Ke∫wick had too long been an object of de∫ire with me to neglect the opportunity of ∫eeing it: I went thither from Penrith: But before I attempt any thing of a de∫cription, let me mention matters of    hu∫bandry. The country between the∫e towns is various, much of it moors, and quite uncultivated, though evidently capable of it, which is melancholy to reflect on. About Keswick, the hu∫bandry is as follows: Farms, from 10l. to 80l. a year. The ∫oil is both a hazel mould, ∫and, gravel, and moory; the fir∫t but ∫hallow: The inclo∫ed letts from 20s. to 30s. a right of commonage included. Their Cour∫e, They plough twice for wheat, ∫ow two bu∫hels and a half, about Michaelmas, and reap 35 to 40, upon an average. They al∫o ∫tir twice for barley, ∫ow ∫ix bu∫hels in April or May, and reap 40 in return. For oats they ∫tir but once, ∫ow ∫even bu∫hels, and gain 50. They have no beans, very few pea∫e, and as little rye. They ∫tir three times for turneps, hoe them once or twice; the average value about 55s. u∫e them for feeding ∫heep and ∫tall-fatting oxen. They know but little of clover; one or two farmers have tried it with barley, but found it good for nothing: It mu∫t have been upon ∫trange land. They have two ways of cultivating potatoes, by ploughing and digging: In the fir∫t, they ∫tir three times, and dung the land well, lay the ∫lices in every other furrow, one foot a∫under, and plough between them once while growing, be∫ides hand-weeding: They plough them up, and get 2, 3, and 400 bu∫hels per acre. Their other way is the lazy-bed method; they lay the dung on the green ∫ward, the ∫lices on that, then they dig trenches, and with the earth cover the∫etts, but they reckon ploughing a better way. Good gra∫s land letts at 30s. an acre; u∫e it mostly for dairying; an acre and half they reckon ∫ufficient for a cow, and an acre for four ∫heep: Manuring it is common. Their breed of cattle is the long horned, and they reckon them be∫t: Fat their oxen to fifty ∫tone; their ∫wine to twenty-four, or thirty. The product of a cow they reckon at 3l. 13s. 6d. and ∫ix gallons per day a common quantity of milk per cow: Do not keep above one hog to ten. The winter food, ∫traw and hay; of the latter they eat about two ton. The ∫ummer joi∫t is 35s. In winter they are kept in the hou∫e: Their calves ∫uck about two months. Their flocks ri∫e from 100 to 1000; the profit they reckon at 4s. 3d. a head; that is, lamb 3s. and wool 1s. 3d. ∫ometimes 5s. They keep them, in both winter and ∫pring, on the commons. The average weight of the fleeces, 4lb. In their tillage, they reckon that twelve hor∫es are nece∫∫ary for the management of 100 acres of arable land: They u∫e ∫ome-times four, and ∫ometimes two in a plough, and do an acre a day with them. The annual expence of keeping a hor∫e they reckon at 6l. 10s. the ∫ummer joi∫t 2l. 2s. The price of ploughing, per acre, is from 5s. to 6s. and March the time of breaking up for a fallow. The hire of a cart and hor∫e 3s. a day. In the hiring and ∫tocking of farms, they reckon 360l. or 400l. nece∫∫ary for one of 80l. a year. Land ∫ells at from 35 to 40 years purcha∫e. Poor rates 9d. in the pound. -- The employment of the women and children, ∫pinning, and winding yarn. No ∫mall e∫tates. The following particulars of farms will ∫hew their general economy. Another, Another, Another, Now, Sir, for the glory of Keswick, -- its lake, ∫o famous all over England. Let me fir∫t inform you, that it is by computation ten miles round, of an oblong figure, and inclo∫ed by a prodigious range of formidable mountains, of ∫uch a height that they are cloud-topped for ∫everal months in the year. The be∫t way of viewing it is to row round the lake, and land now and then for catching the varieties of the pro∫pect. You walk from the town fir∫t down to Cock∫hut-hill, a ∫mall ri∫ing ground, within the amphitheatre of mountains, and has been lately planted. The view of the lake from hence is very beautiful: You have a mo∫t elegant ∫heet of water at your feet, of thefine∫t colour imaginable, ∫potted with i∫lands, of which you ∫ee five, and are high enough to command the water around them. One is in the middle, of about five acres of gra∫s land, with a hou∫e under a clump of trees on one ∫ide of it; the whole object beautifully picture∫que: You look al∫o upon another planted with Scotch firs; and al∫o upon three others more di∫tant. This is the view of the floor of this noble amphitheatre; the walls are in different ∫tyle -- ∫ublime. To the left you look fir∫t on a hilly rock, partly covered with ∫hrubby wood; and further on, upon a chain of tremendous rocks, near 400 yards high; their feet are ∫pread with hanging woods, but their heads bare, broken, and irregular. Following the line the lake ∫eems to lo∫e it∫elf among a wood of rocks and mountains, the tops ri∫ing one above another in the wilde∫t manner imaginable: The oppo∫ite ∫hore pre∫ents you a full view of a va∫t range of hills; and behind, you look upon the prince of the ∫urrounding mountains, Skiddow, who∫e tremendous head rears above the clouds. Leaving this hill you walk down to your boat, and are ∫truck with the limpidtran∫parency of the water, which almo∫t exceeds belief; the bottom is quite paved with ∫tones, and the white ones glitter through the tremulous curl of the ∫urface like ∫o many diamonds. You row to the left pa∫s, a variety of ∫hore, here rocky and projecting, there low and retiring, coa∫t a planted i∫land, and coming under Wallow Crag, one of the immen∫e rocks before mentioned, you have from its foot a very fine view: The ∫urrounding rocks and mountains are truly noble; the crag above you, fringed about a third of its height with pendent woods; the lake at your feet breaks beautifully into a bay behind a promontory, called Stable-hills; again∫t it is Bramp∫holm I∫land; and over the low part of the promontory you catch the wood on Lord's I∫land, in a very plea∫ing manner. The oppo∫ite ∫hore is beautifully ∫cattered with hanging woods, and ∫ome white hou∫es give a liveline∫s to the view truly plea∫ing. Taking your boat again, and rowing till you are oppo∫ite the opening between Wallow and Barrow Crags, the noi∫e of a water-fall un∫een, will induce you to land again; walking on to a ruinous bridge, you look upon a romantic hollow of rocks and woods, with a ∫tream pouring down the clefts in many ∫heets, and ∫een among the trees in the mo∫t picture∫que manner; a romantic ∫cene of rock, and wood and water thirty feet high. Rowing from hence, under Barrow Crag, the ∫hore is rocky, and various: Pa∫∫ing ∫ome low ground, and landing on a ri∫ing one, the view is exqui∫ite. The water breaks in the mo∫t beautiful manner imaginable, into bays and ∫heets, ∫tretching away from the eye mo∫t gloriou∫ly, between the Stable Hills, Lord's I∫land, and Vicar's I∫land: Bramp∫holm cuts in the middle; and St. Alban's I∫le pre∫ents his broad ∫ide to your full view. At the other end of the lake, the ri∫ing hills, part of cultivated, waving inclo∫ures, and part of hanging woods, all ∫cattered with white hou∫es, and the whole crowned with the lofty mountains, are beautifully picture∫que, and contra∫t finely with the view of the ∫outh end of the lake, around which the rocks and mountains aretremendou∫ly bold, pendent, and threatening. Following the coa∫t, the ∫hore is thinly fringed with wood; then you row around a projecting land, containing ∫everal inclo∫ures, and come under a fine, thick, hanging wood, with a raging torrent breaking through it, over rocks, ju∫t ∫een between the wood and Barrow-∫ide, but heard in the mo∫t romantic manner. -- You next anchor in a bay, the environs of which are dreadful; you are under a mon∫trous craggy rock, (Throng Crag,) ∫cattered with ∫hrubby wood to the very edge, and almo∫t perpendicular; and moving the eye from the formidable object, you find this end of the lake ∫urrounded with a chain of them, in the bolde∫t and abrupte∫t ∫tile imaginable. The oppo∫ite ∫hore of mountains very great; and noi∫e of di∫tant water-falls heard mo∫t gloriou∫ly. From hence you coa∫t a dreadful ∫hore of fragments, which time has broken from the towering rocks, many of them of a terrible ∫ize; ∫ome ∫topped on the land by larger than them∫elves, and others rolled into the lake, through a path of de∫olation, ∫weeping trees, hillocks, and everything to the water; the very idea of a ∫mall ∫hiver again∫t the boat ∫trikes with horror. Advancing, you catch the view of a mo∫t beautiful water-fall, within the wave of a gentle bend of the rocks; but to enjoy the full luxuriance of this exqui∫ite land∫cape, it is nece∫∫ary to land and walk to an opening in the grove, from whence it is ∫een in ∫urprizing beauty. You look up a tremendous wall of rock, perpendicular to the top, ∫cattered with wood, that ∫eems to hang in the air; a large ∫tream ru∫hes out of a cliff near the top, and falls, in the mo∫t broken and romantic manner, ∫everal hundred feet: It falls in one gu∫h for ∫everal yards; a projecting part of the rock breaks it then into three ∫treams, which are pre∫ently quite lo∫t behind hanging woods. Lower down, you again catch it in a ∫ingle bright ∫heet, among the ∫urrounding dark wood, in the mo∫t elegantly picture∫que manner that fancy ca conceive. Lo∫ing it∫elf again behind the intervening trees, it breaks to the view in various ∫cattered ∫treams, half ∫een, glittering in the ∫un beams, among the branches of the trees, in the mo∫t bewitchingcolours of nature's clear ob∫cure. Lower ∫till, you again catch it united in one bright ru∫hing fall, in the dark bo∫om of a fine hollow wood, which fini∫hes the ∫cene. The ∫urrounding hills, rocks, and ∫cattered pendent woods, are all romantic and ∫ublime, and tend nobly to ∫et off this mo∫t exqui∫ite touch of rural elegance. In Plate I. is the ∫ketch I took of it. Following the coa∫t you ∫ail round a ∫weet little i∫land, a clump of wood growing out of the lake; but it is joined to the main land when the water is very low. From hence, per∫uing the voyage, you come into the narrow part of the lake, and have a full view of mo∫t romantic terrible craggy rocks, inclo∫ing a mo∫t grand and beautiful ca∫cade: It is a view that mu∫t a∫toni∫h the ∫pectator. You look up to two dreadful pointed rocks, of a va∫t height, which almo∫t hang over your head, partly ∫cattered with ∫hrubby wood, in the wilde∫t ta∫te of nature. Between them is a dreadful precipice of broken craggy rock, over which a raging torrent foams down in one va∫t ∫heet of water, ∫everal yards wide, ju∫t broken into ebullitions by the points of the rocks un∫een. At another time I ∫aw it, when the craggy rock appeared, and the ∫tream was broken by it into ∫everal gu∫hing torrents, which ∫eemed to i∫∫ue di∫tinctly from clefts in the rock in the mo∫t picture∫que manner imaginable: The water is lo∫t in one ∫pot, caught again in another; foaming out of this cleft with ru∫hing impetuo∫ity, and trickling down that with the mo∫t plea∫ing elegance. Nothing can be fancied more grand, more beautiful, or romantic. The ∫ketch in Plate II. will give you but an imperfect idea of it. Taking a winding walk through the wood, it leads down to a rapid ∫tream which you cro∫s, and presently come to a new and most delicious ∫cene. To the right you catch a ∫ide view of the fall ju∫t       de∫cribed, in a new direction, mo∫t beautifully embo∫omed in rock and hanging wood. Full in front you look upon another ca∫cade, which ru∫hes out as it were from the rotten ∫tump of an old tree, and falling down an irregular ∫urface of rock, it breaks into larger and more ∫heets, ∫ome full, others thin and trickling, a mo∫t ∫weet variety: After this, it breaks again, and falls intothe ∫tream in fre∫h beauty, elegantly romantic. Plate III. is the ∫ketch I took. Following the ∫hore into fleet water, you come into a region of mo∫t ∫tupendous rocks, broken, and irregularly pointed, in the mo∫t abrupt and wild manner imaginable, with mon∫trous fragments, large as a hou∫e, that have tumbled from their heads -- Dreadful in the idea! Per∫uing the water to its point, you come into a new and mo∫t glorious amphitheatre of rocks and mountains; on one ∫ide, craggy, broken, and wildly irregular; and on the other, a va∫t range of mountain ∫ide. The hollow magnificently great. Going up the river to Grange bridge, under Grange Crag the lake is lo∫t: the pro∫pect new and terrible; a whole ∫weep of rocks, crags, mountains, and dreadful cha∫ms. Leaving the boat, and walking up to the village, you gain a view of a cone-like rocky woody hill, ri∫ing in the mid∫t of a hollow of mountains, mo∫t nobly romantic. From hence following the road to the lake under Brandelow Hill, you have the noble∫t view of rocks and hills in the world. Grange Crag and Crown Head appear in full view,∫urrounded by an immen∫e wall of rock and mountain. The effect a∫toni∫hingly great. Taking boat again you row round a prodigious fine promontory, beautifully wooded; and upon turning it, you tack about round a most exqui∫ite little i∫land in the bay; and if the water is very high, there are two more very fine woody i∫lands, around which you may row: This little archipelago will entertain a per∫on of the lea∫t ta∫te. Nor is the view of the lake's environs unworthy of admiration. The crags and clifts to the right are tremendous: Skiddow fronts you in the ∫ublime∫t ∫tile; Saddle-back on one ∫ide of him rears his head in the bolde∫t manner: To the left you look upon an exceeding fine hanging wood, beautifully ∫pread over a waving hill. Advancing with the coa∫t you next land at the lead mines, which, if you have a ta∫te for grotto work, will entertain, as a boat may be loaded with ∫par of various glittering and beautiful kinds. Here al∫o are two curio∫ities of an uncommon kind, viz. two ∫alt ∫prings. Sailing along the ∫hore it leads you under a noble hill mo∫t beautifully ∫pread with wood; it is covered thick with young timber trees, which grow in the mo∫t picture∫que manner down to the very water's edge. You next enter a little bay, and look upon a mo∫t elegant ∫mall round hill, covered with wood, inimitably beautiful. This you al∫o coa∫t, nor can any thing be more truly exqui∫ite than the∫e two ∫lopes of wood, with beautiful inclo∫ures between them, contra∫ting the ∫ublimity of the rocks and mountains in the noble∫t ∫tile. Nor ∫hould you here forget to remark three or four inclo∫ures on the other ∫ide of the lake, down to the water's edge, under Achne∫s Fell; they are exqui∫ite. Sailing by ∫ome very beautiful gra∫s inclo∫ures you catch a white hou∫e romantically ∫ituated; and then ∫kirting more inclo∫ures, turn round a ∫mall but mo∫t exqui∫ite promontory, with a ∫weet clump of trees on it: This leads into a very fine land locked bay, which commands a beautiful ∫loping hanging wood; the ∫cene enlivened by a white hou∫e quite in the ∫pot of ta∫te. From hence you look over the lake upon Castle Head Crag, a fine roundof rocky wood ri∫ing out of a vale and backed with waving inclo∫ures. The ∫hore from hence is mo∫t beautifully indented and irregular, running up among little hills finely fringed with wood: From hence you wind in and out of ∫everal bays and creeks, commanding very picture∫que views of the land, and around a mo∫t noble hill of of ∫hrubby wood covered to the very top. From hence around the town the ∫hore is flat. Your next view of Keswick mu∫t be from land, by walking up the va∫t rocks and crags fir∫t de∫cribed. This is a journey which will terrify tho∫e who have been only u∫ed to flat countries. The walk to the highe∫t rock is a mile and a half up, and almost perpendicular, horribly rugged, and tremendous; it is rather a climbing crawl than a walk. The path cro∫∫ed the ∫tream, which forms the fir∫t mentioned ca∫cade, in the mid∫t of dreadful cliffs and romantic hollows: The torrent roars beneath you, in ∫ome places ∫een, in others hid by rock and wood. From hence you climb through a ∫lope of underwood to the edge of a precipice, from which you look down upon the lakeand i∫lands in a mo∫t beautiful manner; for coming at once upon them, after leaving a thick dark wood, the emotions of ∫uprize and admiration are very great. Following the path, (if it may be ∫o called) you pa∫s many romantic ∫pots, and come to the projection of the hill, from which you look down, not only upon the lake as before, but al∫o upon a ∫emi-circular vale of inclo∫ures, of a mo∫t beautiful verdure, which gives a fine curve into the lake: One of the fields is ∫cattered over with trees, which from hence have the mo∫t truly picture∫que effect imaginable. Advancing further yet, you come to the head of Cra∫tig-fall, which is a va∫t opening among the∫e immen∫e rocky mountains, that lets in between them a view acro∫s the lake, catching two of the i∫lands, &c. in a most beautiful manner; nor can anything be more horribly romantic than the adjoining ground where you command this ∫weet view. At la∫t we gained the top of the crag, and from it the pro∫pect is truly noble; you look down upon the lake, ∫potted with its i∫lands, ∫o far below as to appear in anotherregion; the lower hills and rocks ri∫e mo∫t picture∫quely to the view. To the right you look down upon a beautiful vale of cultivated inclo∫ures, who∫e verdure is painting it∫elf. The town pre∫ents its ∫cattered hou∫es, among woods and ∫preading trees: Above it ri∫es Skiddow, cloud-topped in the mo∫t ∫ublime magnitude. De∫cending to the town, we took our leave of this enchanting region of land∫cape, by ∫caling the formidable walls of Skiddow him∫elf: It is five miles to the top, but the immen∫ity of the view fully repays for the labour of gaining it. You look upon the lake, which here appears no more than a little ba∫on, and its i∫lands but as ∫o many ∫pots; it is ∫urrounded by a prodigious range of rocks and mountains, wild as the waves, ∫ublimely romantic. The∫e dreadful ∫weeps, the ∫port of nature in the mo∫t violent of her moments, are the mo∫t ∫triking objects ∫een from Skiddow; but in mere extent the view is prodigious. You ∫ee the hills in Scotland plainly; you view a fine reach of fen; command the I∫le of Man, and ∫ee part of an object, which I take to be an highland in Ireland; be∫ides prodigious tracts of adjacent country. Keswick, upon the whole, contains a variety that cannot fail of a∫toni∫hing the ∫pectator: The lake, the i∫lands, the hanging woods, the waving inclo∫ures, and the ca∫cades are all mo∫t ∫uperlatively elegant and beautiful; while the rocks, clifts, crags, and mountains are equally terrifying and ∫ublime. There cannot be a finer contra∫t. But it is much to be regretted that art does not yield more of her a∫∫i∫tance, not in decoration, for the lake wants it not, but in enabling the ∫pectator to command, with greater ea∫e, the luxuriant beauties and ∫triking views which to ∫o many travellers are hitherto quite unknown: There are a va∫t many edges of precipices, bold projections of rock, pendent clifts, and wild romantic ∫pots, which command the mo∫t delicious ∫cenes, but which cannot be reached without the mo∫t perilous difficulty: To ∫uch points of view, winding paths ∫hould be cut in the rock, and re∫ting places made for the weary traveller: Many of the∫e paths mu∫t nece∫∫arily lead through the hanging woods, openings might be made to let in views of the lake, where the objects, ∫uch as i∫lands, &c. were peculiarly beautiful. At the bottom of the rocks al∫o, ∫omething of the ∫ame nature ∫hould be executed for the better viewing the romantic ca∫cades, which might be exhibited with a little art, in a variety that would a∫toni∫h. It is amu∫ing to think of the pains and expen∫e with which the environs of ∫everal ∫eats have been ornamented, to produce pretty ∫cenes it is true, but how very far ∫hort of the wonders that might here be held up to the eye in all the rich luxuriance of nature's painting. What are the effects of a Louis's magnificence to the ∫portive play of nature in the vale of Keswick! How trifling the labours of art to the mere pranks of nature! Returning to Penrith, our next expedition was to Hulls Water, a very fine lake, about ∫ix miles from that town: The approach to it is very beautiful; the mo∫t advantageous way of ∫eeing it is to take the road up Dunmanlot Hill, for you ri∫e up a very beautiful planted hill, and ∫ee nothing of the water till you gain the ∫ummit, when the view is uncommonly beautiful. You look down at once upon one ∫heet of the lake, which appears prodigiou∫ly fine. It is an oblong water, cut by i∫lands,three miles long and a mile and a half broad in ∫ome places, in others a mile. It is inclo∫ed within an amphitheatre of hills, in front at the end of the reach, projecting down to the water edge, but retiring from it on each ∫ide, ∫o as to leave a ∫pace of cultivated inclo∫ures between the feet and the lake. The hedges that divide them are ∫cattered with trees; and the fields of both gra∫s and corn, waving in beautiful ∫lopes from the water, inter∫ected by hedges, in the mo∫t picture∫que manner. Upon the right, a bold ∫welling hill of turf ri∫es with a fine air of grandeur. Another view from off this hill is on to a mountain's ∫ide, which pre∫ents to the eye a ∫welling ∫lope of turf, and over it ∫addleback ri∫es in a noble ∫tile. Another view from this hill is down upon a beautiful vale of cultivated inclo∫ures; Mr. Haffel's hou∫e at Delmaine, in one part, almo∫t encompa∫∫ed with a plantation: Here you likewi∫e catch ∫ome meanders of the river, through the trees, and hear the roar of the water-fall. This hill is it∫elf a very fine object, viewed every way, but the ∫implicity of its effect is de∫troyed, by being cut by a double ∫tripe ofScotch firs acro∫s it, which varies the colour of the verdure, and con∫equently breaks the unity of the view. Another point of view from which this part of the lake is ∫een to good advantage, is from off Soulby Fell: You look down upon the water, which ∫preads very finely to the view, bounded to the right by the hills, which ri∫e from the very water; at the other, by Dunmanlot Hill; in front, by a fine range of inclo∫ures, ri∫ing mo∫t beautifully to the view, and the water's edge ∫kirted by trees, in a mo∫t picture∫que manner. Directing your cour∫e under the lake, and landing at Swarth Fell, the next bu∫ine∫s ∫hould be to mount its height. The lake winds at your feet like a noble river; the oppo∫ite banks beautiful inclo∫ures, exqui∫itely fringed with trees; and ∫ome little narrow ∫lips, like promontories, jet into it with the mo∫t picture∫que effect imaginable; and at the ∫ame time hear the noi∫e of a water-fall beneath, but un∫een. Taking boat again, and ∫ailing with the cour∫e of the lake, you turn with its bend, and come into a very fine ∫heet of water, which appears like a lake of it∫elf. It is under Howtown and Hawling Fell. The environs here are very ∫triking; cultivated inclo∫ures on one ∫ide, crowned with the tops of hills; and on the other, a woody craggy hill down to the very water's edge. The effect fine. Next you double Hawling Fell, and come again into a new ∫heet of water, under Martindale Fell, which is a prodigious fine hill, of a bold, abrupt form; and between that and Howling Fell, a little   ri∫ing wave of cultivated inclo∫ures, ∫kirted with trees; the fields of the fine∫t verdure, and the picture∫que appearance of the whole mo∫t exqui∫itely plea∫ing. It is a mo∫t delicious ∫pot, within an amphitheatre of rugged hills. Following the bend of the water under New Crag, the views are more romantic than in any part hitherto ∫een. New Crag, to the right, rears a bold, abrupt head, in a stile truly ∫ublime; and pa∫∫ing it a little, the oppo∫ite ∫hore is very noble. Martindale Fell ri∫es ∫teep from the water's edge, and pre∫ents a bold wall of mountain; really glorious. In front, the hills are craggy, broken, and irregular in ∫hape (not height) like tho∫e of Keswick: Theyproject ∫o boldly to the very water, that the outlet or wind of the water is ∫hut by them from the eye. It ∫eems inclo∫ed by a ∫hore of ∫teep hills and crags. From hence to the end of the lake, which there is ∫prinkled by three or four ∫mall i∫lands, the views are in the ∫ame Stile, very wild and romantic. It is an exceedingly plea∫ing entertainment to ∫ail about this fine lake, which is nineteen miles round, and pre∫ents to the eye ∫everal very fine ∫heets of water; and abounds, for another amu∫ement, with noble fi∫h; pike to 30lb. perch to 6lb. trout to 6lb. be∫ides many other ∫orts. The water is of a mo∫t beautiful colour, and admirably tran∫parent. Returning to Penrith, I took the road to Shapp, by Lowther Hall, the ∫eat of Sir James Lowther, Bart. The house (it was burnt down not many years ago) is not ∫o ∫triking as the plantations, which are de∫igned with much ta∫te, and of very great extent. Near the road is the new town of Lowther, where Sir James is building a town to con∫i∫t of 300 hou∫es, for the u∫e of ∫uch of his dome∫ticks, and other people, as are married: And it is highly worhty of remark, that he notonly encourages all to marry, but keeps them in his ∫ervice after they have families: Every couple finds a re∫idence here, and an annual allowance of coals. This is a mo∫t incomparable method of advancing population, and con∫equently the good of the nation at large; nor can it be too much imitated. Above forty hou∫es are already erected. The ∫oil about Shapp is generally a loam upon a lime-∫tone, in ∫ome places thin, but in others deep; letts from 1s. to 20s. an acre; but the inclo∫ures generally 20s. Farms from 40l. to 400l. a year. Their cour∫e, This is execrable. They plough but once for barley, ∫ow two bu∫hels, and gain about twenty. For oats they give three or four ploughings, ∫ow ∫even bu∫hels and a half, and gain thirty-five in return. Good gra∫s letts at 20s. and 25s. an acre; it is u∫ed both for dairying and fatting,but chiefly the latter: An acre they reckon will keep a cow through ∫ummer, or ∫ix ∫heep. They manure it as much as they can, but that is no great matter. Their breed of cattle is the long-horned, and have fatted them ∫o high as 130 ∫tone, but very uncommon; 60 to 80 common. The product of a cow they reckon at 5l. and four gallons the common quantity of milk per day: As to ∫wine, they keep none, upon account of cows: A farmer without a dairy has as many as tho∫e who keep the large∫t, which would ∫urprize a Suffolk or an E∫∫ex man. The winter food of the cows is hay, in general, but ∫ome ∫traw. Their calves for the butcher ∫uck from one to ten weeks; for rearing, not at all, but are all brought up by hand with milk, for twenty weeks. A cow, in winter, generally eats an acre and a half of hay, and they are kept in hou∫e. The ∫ummer joi∫t from 14s. to 40s. Their flocks of ∫heep ri∫e from 5 to 1500. They ∫ell no lambs, but rear them for weathers, at from 7s to 14s. The profit, per head, of the flock, about 5s. Keep them, both winter and ∫pring, onthe commons: The weight of the fleeces 3 or 4lb. at 3d. They u∫e two or three hor∫es in a plough, and do an acre a day. The ∫ummer joi∫t of a hor∫e varies from 10s. to to 50s. The price of ploughing, from 5s. to 6s. an acre: They cut about five inches deep. They know nothing of cutting ∫traw for chaff. They reckon 5 or 600l. nece∫∫ary to ∫tock a farm of 100l. a year: They are, in general, grazing ones. Land ∫ells from 30 to 35 years purcha∫e: There are many freeholds of from 100 to 300l. a year. Tythes both gathered and compounded. Poor rates from 6d. to 1s. in the pound. The employment ∫pinning wool, for Kendal. All drink tea. The farmers carry their corn ten miles. The following particulars of farms will ∫hew the general economy. Another, Another, Another, Another, I took the opportunity of being at Shapp to ride to Haws Water, a lake ∫ome miles to the we∫tward. The road thither leads for ∫ome di∫tance along the ∫ide of a hill, which commands an exceeding fine view of Ponton Vale to the left. It is ∫everal miles in length, of an oblong figure, all cut into inclo∫ures of a charming verdure, and ∫cattered in the mo∫t picture∫que manner withvillages, clumps of wood, hou∫es, bridges, trees, &c. A fine river takes the mo∫t beautiful ∫erpentine cour∫e in the world through it: The oppo∫ite bank is a large ridge of mountain. It is a ∫weet land∫cape, which brings to ones imagination the idea of an Arcadian paradi∫e. The approach to the lake is very picture∫que: You pa∫s between two high ridges of mountain, the banks finely ∫pread with inclo∫ures; upon the right two ∫mall beautiful hills, one of them covered with wood; they are mo∫t plea∫ingly elegant. The lake is a ∫mall one, about three miles long, half a mile over in ∫ome places, and a quarter in others; almost divided in the middle by a promontory of inclo∫ures, joining only by a ∫treight; ∫o that it con∫i∫ts of two ∫heets of water. The upper end of it is fine, quite inclo∫ed with bold ∫teep craggy rocks and mountains; and in the center of the end a few little inclo∫ures at their feet, waving upwards in a very beautiful manner. The fourth ∫ide of the lake is a noble ridge of mountain, very bold and prominent down to the waters edge. They bulge out in the centre in a  fine bold pendent broad head that is venerably magnificent: And the view of the fir∫t ∫heet of the lake lo∫ing it∫elf into the ∫econd among hills, rocks, woods, &c. is picture∫que. The oppo∫ite ∫hore con∫i∫ts of inclo∫ures, ri∫ing one above another, and crowned with craggy rocks. Twelve of the fifteen miles from Shapp to Kendal are a continued chain of mountainous moors, totally uncultivated; one dreary pro∫pect, that makes one melancholy to behold; for the ∫oil it∫elf is highly capable of cultivation and of profitable u∫es; much of it is of a good depth; and the ∫pontaneous growth proves that the nature of the land is equal to many valuable u∫es. After cro∫∫ing this dreary track, the fir∫t appearance of good country is mo∫t exqui∫itely fine; about three miles from Kendal you at once look down from off this de∫olate country upon one of the fine∫t land∫capes in the world; a noble range of fertile inclo∫ures, richly enameled with mo∫t beautiful verdure: And coming to the brow of the hill have a mo∫t elegantly picture∫que view of a variegated track of wavinginclo∫ures, ∫preading over hills, and hanging to the eye in the mo∫t picture∫que and plea∫ing manner that fancy can conceive. Three hills in particular are overlooked, cut into inclo∫ures in a charming ∫tile, of them∫elves forming a mo∫t elegant land∫cape, and worthy the imitation of tho∫e who would give the embelli∫hments of art to the ∫implicity of nature. Kendal is a well built and well paved town, plea∫antly ∫ituated, in the mid∫t of the beautiful country ju∫t de∫cribed. It is famous for ∫everal manufactories; the chief of which is that of knit ∫tockings, employing near 5000 hands by computation. They reckon 120 wool-combers, each employing five ∫pinners, and each ∫pinner four of five knitters; if four, the amount is 2400; this is the full work, ∫uppo∫ing them all to be indu∫trious; but the number is probably much greater. They make 550 dozen a week the year round, or 28,600 dozen annually: The price per pair is from 22d. to 6s. but in general from 22d. to 4s. ∫ome boys at 10d. If we ∫uppose the average 3s. or 36s. a dozen, the amount is 51,480l. The wool they u∫e is chiefly Leice∫ter∫hire, Warwick∫hire, and Durham: They generally mix Leice∫ter∫hire and Durham together. The price 8d. 9d. and 10d. per lb. They ∫end all the manufacture to London by land carriage, which is ∫aid to be the longest, for broad wheel wagons, of any ∫tage in England. The earnings of the manufacturers in this branch are as follow: All the work-people may have con∫tant employment if they plea∫e. During the late war bu∫ine∫s was Exceedingly bri∫k, very dull after the peace, but now as good as ever known. The making of cottons is likewi∫e a con∫iderable manufacture in this town. They are called Kendal cottons, chiefly for exportation, or ∫ailors jackets, about 10d. or 1s. a yard, made of We∫tmoreland wool, which is very coar∫e, ∫elling only at 3d or 4d. per lb. This branch employs three or 400 hands, particularly ∫hearman, weavers, and ∫pinners. All have con∫tant employment. During the war this manufacture was more bri∫k than ever, very dull after the peace, and has continued but indifferent ever ∫ince. Their third branch of manufacture is the lin∫ey wool∫ey, made chiefly for home con∫umption, of Westmoreland, Lanca∫hire, and Cumberland wool; the hands are chiefly weavers and ∫pinners. The fir∫t earn 9s. or 10s. a week; the ∫econd (women) 4s. 6d. or 5s. The farmers and labourers ∫pin their own wool, and bring the yarn to market every week: There are about 500 weavers employed, and from 1000 to 1300 ∫pinners in town and country. The bu∫ine∫s during the war better then it has been ∫ince, but is now better than after the peace. Their fourth manufacture is the tannery, which employs near 100 hands, who earn from 7s. to 7s. 6d. a week. They tan many hides from Ireland. They have likewi∫e a ∫mall manufactory of cards, for carding cloth. Another al∫o of ∫ilk: They receive the wa∫te ∫ilk from London, boil it in soap, which they call ∫cowering, then it is combed by women (there are about 30 or 40 of them) and ∫pun, which article employs about 100 hands; after this it is doubled and dre∫∫ed, and ∫ent back again to London. This branch is upon the increase. Kendal is a very plentiful and cheap place; fat ∫tubble gee∫e are ∫old at 1s. 4d. each; fat fowls at 1s. a couple; fat ducks the ∫ame price; wild fowl and game in great plenty; woodcocks often at 2d. a piece; partridges are ∫old common in the market and very cheap: Fi∫h in great plenty; trout oftentimes at a penny a pound, be∫ides many other ∫orts. It is a neat well built town. From hence we viewed the famous lake called Winander Meer, ten miles we∫t of Kendal; by much the longest water of the kind in England. It is fifteen miles long, and from two miles to half a mile broad. It gives gentle bends, ∫o as to pre∫ent to the eye ∫everal noble ∫heets of water; and is in many places beautifully ∫cattered withi∫lands: The ∫hores are nobly varied, con∫i∫ting in ∫ome places of fine ridges of hills, in others of craggy rocks; in ∫ome of waving inclo∫ures, and in others of the fine∫t hanging woods; ∫everal villages and one market town are ∫ituated on its banks, and a ferry cro∫∫es it to another; there is ∫ome bu∫ine∫s carried on upon it, ∫o that it is not uncommon to ∫ee barges with ∫preading ∫ails: All the∫e circum∫tances give it a very chearful appearance, at the ∫ame time that they add to its beauty. I would advi∫e tho∫e who view this lake, not to take the common road down to the village of Bonus, where the boats are kept, but (for rea∫ons which I ∫hall hereafter add) to go thither round almo∫t by the ferry. The landlord at the inn at that village keeps a boat, and can always provide rowers for any company that comes; the extreme beauty of the lake induced me to explore every part of it with attention; but as I have already troubled you with ∫everal recitals of the∫e water expeditions, I ∫hall only mention a few of the principal points of view, and to which I ∫hould particularly recommend any traveller to row if he had not time to view the whole lake; but no ∫cheme of this sort can be more amu∫ing than two or three days ∫pent here in rowing, ∫ailing, fi∫hing, and wild duck ∫hooting, all which are here to be had in great perfection; and I should add, that the end of May, or the beginning of June, is the proper time for ∫uch an expedition. Taking boat at the village, you row fir∫t to The I∫land, ∫o called by way of preeminence, being by much the large∫t in the lake; it contains between thirty and forty acres of land, and I cannot but think it the ∫weete∫t ∫pot, and full of the greate∫t capabilities, of any forty acres in the king's dominions. The view from the ∫outh end is very fine; the lake pre∫ents a mo∫t noble ∫heet of water ∫tretching away for ∫everal miles, and bounded in front by di∫tant mountains; the ∫hoars beautifully indented by promontories covered with wood, andjetting into the water in the mo∫t picture∫que ∫tile imaginable, particularly the ferry points on both ∫ides; it is broke by Berk∫hire I∫land, almo∫t covered with wood, in another, and ju∫t hides a hou∫e on the main land. The ea∫tern ∫hore is ∫pread forth with the mo∫t beautiful variety. In ∫ome places waving inclo∫ures of corn and gra∫s ri∫e one above another, and pre∫ent to the eye a ∫cenery beyond the brighte∫t ideas of painting it∫elf. In others ∫hrubby ∫pots and pendent woods hang down to the very water's edge: In ∫ome places the∫e woods are broke by a few ∫mall gra∫s inclo∫ures of the ∫weete∫t verdure; and in others run around large circuits of them, and, ri∫ing to the higher grounds, lo∫e them∫elves in the wilds above. Here you ∫ee ∫lips of land running into the lake, and covered with trees which ∫eem to ri∫e from the water: There, a boldly indented ∫hore, ∫welling into fine bays, and ∫kirted with ∫preading trees, an edging as elegant as ever fancied by Claud him∫elf. The village is caught among ∫ome ∫catteredtrees, in a ∫weet ∫ituation, on the bank of a bay, formed by a promontory of wood, the back ground a ∫weep of inclo∫ures, ri∫ing one above another. Following this line of ∫hoar towards the north, you command Bannerig and Oare∫t Head>, two hills all cut into inclo∫ures to the very top; to the north you look upon a noble range of irregular mountains, which contra∫t finely with the other more beautiful ∫hores. The we∫tern is a fine ∫weep of craggy rocks, here and there fringed with wood. Advancing to the very farthe∫t point of land, the∫e objects are varied, and new ones appear that are truly beautiful. The Lanca∫hire ferry point and the woody i∫land join, and ∫eem one prodigious fine promontory of wood; the ferry hou∫e ∫een among the trees in a picture∫que manner. They form the boundary in front of a fine bay, walled in to the right by a noble rocky cliff; and in the middle of it a ∫weet little woody i∫land. Over the low part of the promontory the di∫tant hills are ∫een finely. The ∫hore to the left, here, appears peculiarly beautiful, for half a dozen inclo∫ures of the mo∫t elegant verdure ri∫e from the water's edge among ∫loping woods,and offer a variety of colours of the mo∫t picture∫que hues. From hence likewi∫e you look back on Bannerig, a fine cultivated hill, ri∫ing from the lake in a mo∫t plea∫ing manner. Moving from this end of the i∫land along the we∫t coa∫t of it, the view is extremely picture∫que. The ∫treight is broke by three i∫lands, two of them thickly covered with wood, the other a long ∫lip, ∫cattered with tall upright trees, through the ∫tems of which, and under the thick ∫hade of their ∫preading tops, the water is ∫een glittering with with the ∫un beams; a land∫cape truly delicious. From the north end of this i∫le, ∫o happy in the beauties of pro∫pect, the views are various, and ∫ome of them exqui∫ite: Looking towards the ∫outh, you command a prodigious fine view of the lake, ∫preading to the right and left behind promontories, one beyond another, in a gloriou∫ly irregular ∫heet of water, encircled by an amphitheatre of hills, in the noble∫t ∫tile. To the north you look upon another ∫heet, different from the fir∫t: It is broke by a clu∫ter of four ∫mall but beautiful i∫lands. Full in front you look upon a noble ∫weep of mountains, and on one, in particular, that is very curious: It is of a circular form, ri∫ing out of a va∫t hollow among the re∫t, and is overtopped by them; romantic in the highe∫t degree. A little to the right of it, you command one of the mo∫t noble of cultivated hills. It is inter∫ected by hedges, trees, and ∫cattered woods, into a va∫t ∫weep of inclo∫ures, which reach the very top: A view beautifully magnificent. More to the right, the eye is delighted with the mo∫t elegant waves of cultivated inclo∫ures, that can be conceived, ri∫ing to the view in the mo∫t picture∫que varieties of land∫cape, and forcing admiration from the mo∫t ta∫tele∫s of mortals. To the left, a va∫t range of rocks and mountains form the boundary of the lake, and project into it in the bolde∫t manner. Sailing from this noble i∫land to that of Berk∫hire, a little hilly wood of ∫cattered trees: The views are various, rich, and truly picture∫que: From the north ∫ide of it you look upon a fine ∫heet of water, to the Great I∫land, &c. and bounded by a noble variety of ∫hore. To the left, and in front, high ridges of hlls and mountains: To the right, mo∫t beautiful waving hills of inclo∫ures; ∫ome ju∫t ri4ing enough to ∫hew their hedges di∫tinctly, and others hanging full to the eye; beneath, a boundary of rough hills, and wild, uncultivated ground. To the left, you ∫ee Crow I∫land, which appears fine; and the ferry-hou∫e, beneath a clump of trees, on the point of a promontory, jetting into the water, with an effect really exqui∫ite. To the ea∫t, you look again∫t a very fine bank of inclo∫ures, mo∫t elegantly ∫cattered with trees. To the ∫outh, the lake is lo∫t between two promontories, projecting into it again∫t each other, and leaving a fine Strait between: One is high and rocky; the other, a line of waving wood and inclo∫ures, and catch beyond it the di∫tant hills, which complete the view. The we∫tern pro∫pect is on to a range of craggy hills; ∫ome mo∫t beautifully fringed with hanging woods, and cut in the middle by a cultivated wave of inclo∫ures, broken by woods, hedges, clumps, and ∫cattered trees, and ri∫ing one above another, in the mo∫t picture∫que irregularity that fancy can ∫uppo∫e. At the top, a farm-hou∫e, under a clump of trees; the whole forming a bird's eye land∫cape of the mo∫t delicious kind. Nor can any thing be finer than the hanging woods on this ∫ide of the lake, broken by gra∫s inclo∫ures of a beautiful verdure. Sailing acro∫s the lake from Berk∫hire to the ∫hore under the∫e inclo∫ures, which are called Round Table, nothing in nature can be more exqui∫ite than the view, as you move, of a fine, long, gra∫s inclo∫ure, at the water's edge, on the oppo∫ite ∫hore, bounded by fine woods, except to the lake, edged with ∫ome ∫preading trees, through which the view of the gra∫s is truly picture∫que. Other waving ∫lopes of inclo∫ures, to the right, hang to the lake, under the ∫hade of a rough, wild hill, and down to a ∫kirting of wood, on the water's edge, in the fine∫t manner. Behind, the rocky cliff of Fourne∫s Fells, has a noble appearance, crowned with a ∫weep of wood. Sailing under the we∫tern ∫hore, you command mo∫t beautiful land∫capes on the oppo∫ite one, con∫i∫ting of the fine∫t banks of cultivated inclo∫ures, ∫cattered with trees, clumps of wood, farm hou∫es,&c. and hanging to the water's edge in the mo∫t charming variety of ∫ituation; the fields in ∫ome places dipping in the very lake, in others thick woods ri∫ing from the water; ∫cenes which call for the pencil of a genius to catch graces from nature beyond the reach of the mo∫t elaborate art. Coming to Ling Holm, a ∫mall rocky i∫land, with a few trees on it, you have a double view of the two ∫hores, finely contra∫ted, the we∫tern ∫pread with noble hanging woods; and the ea∫tern one cultivated hills, waving to the eye in the fine∫t inequalities of ∫urface. The di∫tant hills are al∫o ∫een in a bold ∫tile over the low inclo∫ures of Rawlin∫on's Nab, a promontory to the ∫outh. Landing on the point of that promontory the view is very noble, it commands two glorious ∫heets of water, north and ∫outh, each of four or five miles in length. That to the ∫outh is bounded in general by rough woody hills, broken in a few ∫pots by little inclo∫ures: In front of the promontory, ∫everal very beautiful ones, cut by irregular ∫weeps of wood, and hanging to the water's edge in the fine∫t manner; the whole crowned with craggy tops of hills. But the view to the north is much the mo∫t beautiful. Berk∫hire I∫land breaks the ∫heet of water in one place, and adds to the picture∫que variety of the ∫cene without injuring its noble ∫implicity. Common Nab, a promontory from the ea∫t ∫hore, projects into it in another place, elegantly variegated with wood and inclo∫ures, waving over ∫loping hills, and crowned with rough uncultivated ground. One inclo∫ure in paticular breaks into the wood in the mo∫t picture∫que manner imaginable. This end of the lake is bounded by the noble hills of cultivated inclo∫ures, already mentioned, which are viewed from hence to much advantage; they ri∫e from the ∫hore with great magnificence. To the left a ridge of hanging woods, ∫pread over wild romantic ground, that breaks into bold projections, abrupt and spirited, contra∫ting the elegance of the opposite beautiful ∫hore in the fine∫t manner. Having thus viewed the mo∫t plea∫ing objects from the∫e points, let me next conduct you to a ∫pot, where, at one glance, you command them all, in fre∫h ∫ituations, and all a∫∫uming a new appearance. For this purpo∫e you return to the village, andtaking the bye road to the turnpike, (not that by which you came) mount the hill without turning your head (if I was your guide I would conduct you behind a ∫mall hill, that you might come at once upon the view) till you almo∫t gain the top, when you will be ∫truck with a∫toni∫hment at the pro∫pect ∫pread forth at your feet, which, if not the mo∫t ∫uperlative view that nature can exhibit, ∫he is more fertile in beauties than the reach of my imagination will allow me to conceive. It would be mere vanity to attempt to de∫cribe a ∫cene which beggars all de∫cription, but that you may have ∫ome faint idea of the outlines of this wonderful picture, I will ju∫t give the particulars of which it con∫i∫ts. The point on which you ∫tand is the ∫ide of a large ridge of hills that form the ea∫tern boundaries of the lake, and the ∫ituation high enough to look down upon all the objects: A circum∫tance of great importance, and which painting cannot imitate: In land∫capes, you are either on a level with the objects, or look up to them; the painter cannot give the declivity at your feet, which le∫∫ens the objects as much in the perpendicular line as in his horizontal one. You look down upon a noble winding valley of about twelve miles long, every where inclo∫ed with grounds which ri∫e in a very bold and various manner; in ∫ome places bulging into mountains, abrupt, wild, and uncultivated; in others, breaking into rocks, craggy, pointed, and irregular: Here, ri∫ing into hills covered with the noble∫t woods, pre∫enting a gloomy brownne∫s of ∫hade, almo∫t from the clouds to the reflection of the trees in the limpid water they ∫o beautifully ∫kirt: There, waving in glorious ∫lopes of cultivated inclo∫ures, adorned in the ∫weete∫t manner with every object that can give variety to art, or elegance to nature; trees, woods, villages, hou∫es, farms, ∫cattered with picture∫que confu∫ion, and waving to the eye in the mo∫t romantic land∫capes that nature can exhibit. This valley, ∫o beautifully inclo∫ed, is floated by the lake, which ∫preads forth to the right and left in one va∫t but irregular expan∫e of tran∫parent water. A more noble object can hardly be imagined. Its immediate ∫hoar is traced in every variety of line that fancy can imagine, ∫ometimes contracting the lake into the appearance of a noble winding river; at others retiring from it, and opening large ∫welling bays, as if for navies to anchor in; promontories ∫pread with woods, or ∫cattered with trees and inclo∫ures, projecting into the water in the mo∫t picture∫que ∫tile imaginable: rocky points breaking the ∫hore, and rearing their bold heads above the water. In a word, a variety that amazes the beholder. But what fini∫hes the ∫cene with an elegance too delicious to be imagined, is, this beautiful ∫heet of water being dotted with no le∫s than ten i∫lands, di∫tinctly commanded by the eye; all of the mo∫t bewitching beauty. The large one pre∫ents a waving various line, which ri∫es from the water in the mo∫t picture∫que inequalities of ∫urface: high land in one place, low in another; clumps of trees in this ∫pot, ∫cattered ones in that; adorned by a farmhou∫e on the water's edge, and backed with a little wood, vyeing in ∫imple elegance with Boromean palaces: Some of the ∫maller i∫les ri∫ing from the lake like little hills of wood, ∫ome only ∫cattered with trees, and others of gra∫s of the fine∫t verdure; a more beautiful variety no where to be ∫een. Strain your imagination to command the idea of ∫o noble an expan∫e of water thus gloriou∫ly environed; ∫potted with i∫lands more beautiful than would have i∫∫ued from the pencil of the happie∫t painter. Picture the mountains rearing their maje∫tic heads with native ∫ublimity; the va∫t rocks boldly projecting their terrible craggy points: And in the path of beauty, the variegated inclo∫ures of the mo∫t charming verdure, hanging to the eye in every picture∫que form that can grace a land∫cape, with the mo∫t exqui∫ite touches of la belle nature: If you rai∫e your fancy to ∫omething infinitely beyond this a∫∫emblage of rural elegancies, you may have a faint notion of the unexampled beauties of this ravi∫hing land∫cape. As I next re∫ume intelligence of hu∫bandry with the county of Lanca∫ter, I ∫hall here conclude this letter, I am, Sir, &c. RETURNING to Kendal I took the road to Burton, pa∫∫ing through a country various in re∫pect of culture: Around that town, particularly about Holme, their ∫oil is a light loam on a lime ∫tone, with ∫ome of ∫and, letts from 6s. 8d. to 3l. an acre; average about a guinea. Farms from 20l. to 80l. a year. As to their cour∫es they did not u∫e to fallow at all, but now they are, And, Of wheat they ∫ow two bu∫hels, about Michaelmas, and reap from twelve to fifteen. For barley they plough twice, ∫ow not quite three bu∫hels, about the end of April or the beginning of May, and reckon the average produce at twenty. They plough but once for oats, ∫ow four bu∫hels about the time of barley ∫owing; the crop twenty-four. They cultivate ∫ome beans, plough once, ∫ow two bu∫hels in March or April, never hoe, but gain on an average twenty-three bu∫hels. They plough once for pea∫e, ∫ow a bu∫hel and a half, and gain from none at all to fifteen bu∫hels. For rye they likewi∫e give but one earth, ∫ow two bu∫hels; the crop from twelve to fifteen. They ∫tir twice for turneps, know nothing of hoeing; the average value per acre, 5l. or 6l. Thomas Richard∫on has had crops that he would not take 12l. an acre for; but ∫uch extravagant prices are not in the lea∫t owing to good hu∫bandry, but the ∫carcity of the commodity. They u∫e them for cows, ∫heep, &c. &c. Clover is not very common, but they ∫ow itwith barley; they get 15 Cwt. of hay off it the fir∫t crop, and 10 or 12 Cwt. the ∫econd; but ∫ometimes they feed one crop. Their culture of potatoes is as follows: They dung the lay ground well; lay the ∫lices (18 bu∫hels) on the dung, and then dig trenches two ∫pits wide, and cover the ∫etts, which are laid ∫even inches ∫quare, with the turfs and moulds that ri∫e: If weeds come they are drawn out by hand. The crop, upon an average, 180 bu∫hels per acre. Barley they ∫ow after them, and get thirty bu∫hels an acre. This is the lazy-bed way. As to manure, they can at pre∫ent boa∫t a little, for lime is in u∫e among them, but it has been only for two or three years; they lay 90 or 100 bu∫hels an acre on to fallow for wheat, co∫ts 4½d. per bu∫hel; they do not pare and burn; ∫tack their hay in hou∫es, but know nothing of chopping their ∫tubbles. Good gra∫s letts from 2l. to 3l. They u∫e it chiefly for the dairy: An acre and a quarter, or an acre and a half, they reckon ∫ufficient for the ∫ummer feed of a cow; and an acre to keep four or five ∫heep. Their breed of cattle is the long horned. The product of a cow, 6l. 6s. to 7l. They give four gallons of milk per day, on an average. To ten cows, they keep two or three ∫wine. The winter food hay and ∫traw; of the fir∫t, about an acre and half. The ∫ummer joi∫t, 35s. A dairy-maid, they reckon, can take care of eight cows; calves ∫uck from from five to ∫ix weeks, both for rearing and butcher. Sheep they reckon, I know not for what rea∫on, hurtful among milch cows; their flocks are from twenty to one hundred and fifty, the profit 5s. or 6s. per ∫heep; keep them all the year in the field; the medium of their fleeces 6 or 7lb. from 3d. to 5d. per ib. In the tillage of their lands they reckon four hor∫es nece∫∫ary for fifty acres of arable land, u∫e three or four in a plough, and do three rood a day. The annual expence of keeping a hor∫e they reckon 6l. They break up their ∫tubbles for a fallow in March; plough in general about five or ∫ix inches deep; the common price 8s. an acre. Two ∫hillings a day the hire of a cart and hor∫e. One hundred pounds they reckon ∫ufficient for ∫tocking a farm of 50l. a year. Tythes are generally taken in kind. Poor rates 3d. in the pound; they ∫pin flax and wool. Most of them drink tea twice a day. E∫tates are either large, or under 100l. a year: Very few gentlemen of 2, 3, 4, or 500l. a year. The farmers do not carry their corn above three miles. The following ∫ketches of farms will give an idea of their general economy. Another, Another, Another, Lanca∫ter is a flouri∫hing town, well ∫ituated for trade, of which it carries on a pretty bri∫k one; po∫∫e∫∫ing about 100 ∫ail of ∫hips, ∫ome of them of a good burthen, for the African and American trades; the only manufactory in the town is that of cabinet ware; here are many cabinet-makers, who work up the mahogany brought home in their own ∫hips, and re-export it to the We∫t Indies, &c. &c. It is a town that increa∫es in buildings; having many new piles, much ∫uperior to the old ∫treets, and hand∫omely rai∫ed of white ∫tone and ∫late. 